I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt Clusters Localized at the Sn Single-Site in Zeolite Framework
Abstract
Catalytic dehydrogenation of propane over a Pt-based catalyst to propylene has received considerable interests in recent years because this route is able to provide an economical and efficient way to fill the gap between supply and demand in propylene market. The low dispersion of a Pt particle at the support surface and sintering of Pt nanoparticles under the harsh reaction condition are the main challenges in the practical application of this catalyst. Herein, highly efficient Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts are developed for propane dehydrogenation, which exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability in this reaction. Full characterizations with XRD, STEM, XPS, CO-IR, H2-TPR, and Py-IR techniques on these catalysts reveal that the Pt clusters are localized at the Sn single-site in the zeolitic framework, which allows the generated Pt clusters to be homogeneously dispersed at the surface zeolite. The high performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts under a high reaction temperature is mainly due to a strong interaction between the Pt cluster and Sn-zeolite. An initial propane conversion of 50%, high propylene selectivity of above 99%, low deactivation rate of 0.006 h1, high TOF of 114 s1, and good regenerability have been achieved in the Pt-Sn2.00/Sn-Beta catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 570 C.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane dehydrogenation beta zeolite propylene production PtSn particles metal dispersion anti-sintering
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propylene, as one of the most important basic chemicals, is used as the feedstock for the production of a great deal of chemicals. The market demand of propylene increases greatly in the past few years all over the world because of a large consumption of the downstream products derived from propylene. (1) The steam cracking of naphtha and fluid catalytic cracking of heavy oil are the traditional ways for the production of propylene. (2) However, the propylene productivity in these two ways still cannot produce sufficient propylene to satisfy the increasing market demand. Recently, the propane dehydrogenation to propylene becomes one of the most promising and attractive techniques for the production of propylene because the success in the large-scale exploitation of shale gas can supply an abundance of cheap propane for this process. In fact, this process has been commercialized by the UOP company, which is operated with the moving bed reactor based on an alumina-supported Pt catalyst. (35)
The dispersion and stability of a Pt particle at surface of support are the key factors, which essentially affect the catalytic performance of the Pt catalyst. (6,7) The high dispersion of the Pt particle enables most Pt atoms to be accessible for the catalytic reaction. The good stability of the Pt particle prevents the sintering of Pt particles under the harsh reaction condition, which significantly increases the catalyst lifetime. (612) It has been confirmed that the dispersion and stability of the Pt particle is closely related to the interaction between the Pt particle and support. In fact, the strong metalsupport interaction (SMSI) leads to two evident consequences on the properties of catalyst: first, it can remarkably facilitate the dispersion of Pt species on the support, which results in ultra-small Pt clusters uniformly distributed at the surface of the support; second, it can essentially decrease the mobility of the Pt particle under the harsh reaction condition, which notably hinders the Pt agglomeration in the catalytic reaction. (7,911) Therefore, much effort has been dedicated to developing new strategies for enhancing the metalsupport interaction so as to achieve a highly dispersed and sinter-resistant Pt catalyst for a propane dehydrogenation reaction.
Rational design of the precise control of the structure of the support is a useful way to obtain a strong interaction between Pt and the support, and various types of materials have been used as the support to disperse the Pt particle. An Al2O3 nanosheet rich in pentacoordinate Al3+ ions can effectively stabilize PtSn clusters for propane dehydrogenation. This γ-Al2O3 possesses a large amount of pentacoordinate Al3+ site defects, and these coordinatively unsaturated Al atoms act as anchoring sites to confine Pt atoms even at high reaction temperatures. (8) The achieved Pt-Sn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent specific activity for propylene formation with >99% selectivity and did not suffer from coke formation and sintering processes. The Mg(Sn)(Al)O derived from Sn-containing layered double hydroxides (LDHs) exhibited high performance to disperse and stabilize the Pt particles. The Pt particles are homogeneously distributed in small raft-like clusters on Mg(Sn)(Al)O due to its interaction with the SnIV/II sites located in Mg(Al)O lattices. A propylene selectivity of above 99% with a conversion close to the equilibrium was attained at 550 C, and no visible sintering of Pt clusters was observed in the long-term DHP reaction in the Pt/Mg(Sn)(Al)O catalyst. (13) Recently, the Pt clusters grafted on gallium single-site at the surface of partially dehydroxylated silica was developed by a surface organometallic chemistry approach, and the synthesis of this catalyst was realized through the sequential grafting of a platinum precursor onto silica possessing site-isolated gallium sites followed by H2 reduction. Monitoring the local structure of the reduced catalyst (Gaδ+Pt0/SiO2) with an in situ X-ray absorption technique reveals that the GaxPt (0.5 < x < 0.9) bimetallic particles are anchored at the isolated gallium sites. (14) An improved catalytic performance is attained in this bimetallic catalyst, which is mainly attributed to the highly dispersed GaxPt alloyed structure on a support with low Brnsted acidity containing gallium single-sites.
Herein, a novel strategy for the synthesis of highly stable Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is developed, which is realized by the stabilization of Pt clusters onto the isolated Sn sites in a zeolite framework. This strategy consists of three basic steps: (i) removal of framework Al atoms from the zeolite crystalline structure to create the lattice defects, (ii) incorporation of Sn atoms into the vacancies to form Sn containing zeolite, and (iii) soft landing of the Pt particle at the surface of Sn-zeolite to achieve Pt/Sn-zeolite catalysts. Various characterization results suggest that the Pt clusters are anchored on the lattice Sn site of zeolite, which results in high dispersion and excellent stability of Pt clusters at the surface of a Sn-zeolite support. As a consequence, high catalytic performance is obtained in Pt/Sn-zeolite catalysts for the propane dehydrogenation.
2. Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
A Pt/Sn-Beta catalyst was prepared through a three-step synthesis procedure, which involves the dealumination of parent Al-zeolite, grafting of Sn complex onto dealuminated Si-Beta, and loading of Pt species onto Sn-zeolite. In a typical synthesis, commercial Al-Beta zeolite with a nominal Si/Al ratio of 13 was stirred in a 13 M nitric acid aqueous solution (20 mL/g zeolite) at 353 K overnight to obtain a dealuminated Beta (Si-Beta). The powder was filtered, washed several times with deionized water, and dried at 353 K for 12 h. Prior to grafting of the Sn complex, the Si-Beta sample was dehydroxylated by thermal treatment at 500 C in a high vacuum line (105 mbar) overnight. Afterward, 1.0 g of the solid powder was transferred into a solution of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) in hexane in a Schlenk tube, and the resulting mixture was allowed to react for 24 h at room temperature under gentle stirring. The isolated product was added to the hexane solution of Pt(COD)Me2, and the obtained mixture was kept stirring for 24 h. The solid product was separated by filtration and washed several times to obtain the final product. Note that the Pt loading is kept at 0.50 wt % and the Sn/Pt mole ratio is varied with 0, 1/3, 1/2, 1, 2, and 3. The last solid product was transferred into a glass tube and reduced in the flow of hydrogen for 4 h at 150 C, finally resulting in the formation of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts.
2.2. Catalyst Characterization
Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) was collected on a Thermo Scientific Nicolet iS50 FTIR spectrometer in the range of 40002600 cm1 by using coaddition of 32 scans. The sample was pressed into a small disc with dried KBr powder and characterized by FTIR at room temperature.
The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded on a Rigaku Ultimate III diffractometer using Cu Kα (γ = 1.5406 Å) radiation at 40 kV and 40 mA in the 2θ range of 5 to 60 with a scan rate of 8/min.
The surface area and pore volume were analyzed by N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms at 77 K on a Micromeritics ASAP 2046M nitrogen adsorption instrument. Before measurement, the samples were preheated under vacuum at 350 C for 3 h. The BrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) method was used to calculate the specific surface areas of the catalysts in the P/P0 range of 0.050.30. The t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore volumes, and the total pore volume was calculated from the nitrogen adsorption at P/P0 = 0.99.
The Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrum of CO adsorption measurement was performed on an IS 50 spectrometer equipped with cooling and evacuation system. Typically, a 13 mm diameter self-supporting disk compressed from about 10 mg of sample was carefully transferred into the in situ cell and reduced in a flow of 10% H2 at 300 C for 30 min. Subsequently, the apparatus was flushed with N2 for 2 h in order to completely eliminate any adsorbed hydrogen, and then cooled to room temperature to collect the background spectrum. Afterward, the sample contacted with a flow of CO for 10 min followed by purging with N2 for 30 min. The frequency of CO chemisorbed was evaluated using IR spectra obtained by after the subtraction of the spectra recorded before CO chemisorption.
The high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) and HAADF-STEM images were obtained on an aberration-corrected FEI Titan instrument. Prior to the measurement, the samples were prepared on carbon-coated copper by using a drop of an alcohol dispersion of a catalyst and evaporating at room temperature. The sizes of PtSn particles were analyzed with the DigitalMicrograph software.
X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) of dehydrated samples were recorded on a Kratos Axis Ultra DLD spectrometer with a monochromated Al Kα X-ray source (hν = 1486.6 eV) and pass energy of 160 eV and a multichannel plate and delay line detector (DLD) under a vacuum of 107 mbar. The binding energies were referenced to the C 1s peak of contaminant carbon at 284.6 eV.
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) was measured with a home-made apparatus equipped with a thermal conductivity detector. Prior to the TPR experiments, the catalysts were dried in flowing N2 at 400 C for 1 h. TPR analysis was performed from room temperature to 800 C under 5% H2/N2 at a flow of 30 mL min1 at a ramp rate of 20 C min1.
FTIR spectra of pyridine adsorption on the samples were taken on a Thermo Scientific Nicolet iS50 FTIR spectrometer furnished with an (in situ) cell. A self-supporting disk of the catalyst (ca. 10 mg) was pretreated at 573 K for 4 h under a vacuum of 102 Pa and then cooled to room temperature. The catalysts were saturated with pyridine vapor and then evacuated at 293, 473, and 573 K for 30 min. Spectra were measured at evacuation temperature in the range of 17001400 cm1 by using coaddition with 32 scans. The amount of the Lewis acid sites in samples was determined from the characteristic band at ca. 1450 cm1.
The dispersion of the Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts was studied by CO chemisorption on a BELSORB-max apparatus (Bel-Japan). Two hundred milligrams of catalysts was pretreated at 200 C in Ar for 0.5 h. Then, the samples were introduced for reduction at 550 C for 1 h in 20 mL min1 under 10 vol % H2/Ar. After the catalysts were cooled and kept in 20 mL min1 Ar at 25 C, 10 vol % CO/Ar mixture was injected pulses until the consumption peaks become stable. The Pt metal dispersion was calculated by the following equation
where VCO represents the volume of the adsorbed CO volume (mL), SF represents the stoichiometry factor, MW represents the Pt atomic weight (g mol1), and WPt represents the weight of metallic Pt in the catalyst (g).
The thermogravimetric analyses of the deactivated catalysts were conducted on a Mettler-Toledo thermobalance from ambient temperature to 800 C with a heating rate of 10 C/min in a flow of air (20 mL/min).
2.3. Catalytic Reaction
The propane dehydrogenation over Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts was carried out under atmospheric pressure in a fixed-bed quartz reactor with an inner diameter of 6 mm. The catalyst was mounted into the quartz reactor with quartz wool as a support and then reduced under 10% H2 at 570 C for 1 h. The propane dehydrogenation was performed under 10 vol % C3H8 and 10 vol % H2 in N2 with a weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) for propane from 141 to 2400 h1. The thermocouple was kept at the catalyst bed layer in order to accurately control the reaction temperature. The catalytic tests were performed at 570 C. The reaction products were analyzed by gas chromatography with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and a flame ionization detector (FID). The FID was used to measure the concentrations of all hydrocarbons, including CH4, C2H6, C2H4, C3H6, and C3H8 (no dimerization or aromatization product was detected), and the TCD was used to measure the concentrations of N2 and H2.
The carbon balance (above 98%) was calculated from the following equation: carbon balance (%) = (1/3[FCH4]out + 2/3[FC2H6]out + 2/3[FC2H4]out + [FC3H6]out + [FC3H8]out)/[FC3H8]in, and the flow rate of CH4, C2H4, C2H6, C3H6, and C3H8 was estimated by using the flow rate of N2 as a reference. The propane conversion and propylene selectivity were defined as: propane conversion (%) = ([FC3H8]in  [FC3H8]out)/[FC3H8]in; propylene selectivity (%) = [FC3H6]out/([FC3H8]in  [FC3H8]out).
Specific activity and TOF are frequently used to illustrate the activity of catalyst in the catalytic reaction. Specific activity is defined as the moles of propylene produced per mol of Pt per second, which reflects the apparent activity. TOF refers to the moles of propylene produced per mol of surface Pt atoms per second, which reflects the intrinsic activity. The detailed calculation equations of specific activity and TOF are as follows:
where FC3H8 represents the volume of gas in the propane reaction (mL), YC3H8 represents the yield of propane, Wc represents the weight of reaction catalysts (g), MW represents the Pt atomic weight (g mol1), WPt represents the weight of supported Pt on the catalysts (g), and D represents dispersion (Ptsurface/Pttotal).
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
A grafting approach based on surface organometallic chemistry concept is applied for the synthesis of the Pt/Sn-Beta catalyst, through which the Sn and Pt species can be loaded into the zeolite structure in a controllable manner. (1519) As shown in Scheme 1, the synthesis of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Pt/Sn ratios consists of three basic steps: (i) the removal of Al atoms in Al-Beta zeolite to create a vacancy, (20,21) (ii) grafting of HSnBu3 onto dealuminated zeolite resulting in the incorporation of Sn atoms into a vacancy for the formation of Sn-Beta zeolite, and (iii) grafting of Pt(COD)Me2 compound onto Sn-zeolite followed by H2 treatment finally leading to the generation of Pt/Sn-zeolite catalysts. The grafting synthesis was monitored by an in situ FTIR technique (Figure 1). In fact, the grafting of a HSnBu3 or Pt(COD)Me2 organometallic compound onto oxides is the well-established reaction. The grafting reaction takes place upon the protonolysis of a methyl group in Pt(COD)Me2 or the hydride group in HSnBu3, which leads to the formation of a SnBu3/oxide or Pt(COD)Me/oxide compound. (1519) Thus, it can be inferred that the sequential grafting of HSnBu3 and Pt(COD)Me2 organometallic complexes on to the dealuminated Beta zeolite gives rise to a Pt(COD)Me/SnBu3/Beta surface compound. This grafting reaction can be directly illustrated from the following FTIR study. The FTIR spectrum of H-type of Al-Beta exhibits several feature bands due to hydroxyl stretching: the band at 3775 and 3655 cm1 assigned to AlOH groups of extraframework aluminum species, the band at 3732 cm1 assigned to an isolated external SiOH group, the band at 3600 cm1 assigned bridging hydroxyls SiOHAl, and the broad weak band located at 3520 cm1 assigned to hydrogen-bonded SiOH groups. (2224) After the treatment of Al-Beta with HNO3 solution, the bands at 3775, 3655, and 3600 cm1 related to the Al species structure totally vanish, which suggests the elimination of Al from the framework. (22,25,26) Subsequent grafting of HSnBu3 and Pt(COD)Me2 compounds onto the dealuminated Beta zeolite leads to the decrease in the intensity of OH bands at around 3732 cm1, indicating that these two compounds react with the isolated SiOH group and thus are loaded into the Beta zeolite structure. (1518,2729) Meanwhile, the new bands between 2930 and 2870 cm1 attributed to the CH stretching vibration are observable in the Beta zeolite after its reaction with HSnBu3 and Pt(COD)Me2 compounds, which suggests that these two compounds are successfully grafted onto Beta zeolite. (17,18) The thermal treatment of the Pt(COD)Me/SnBu3/Beta surface compound in the presence of H2 results in its fast decomposition. When it is exposed to H2 at 150 C in 5 min, the intensity of the visible peaks located at 30002800 cm1 attributed to the organic group significantly decreases, which proves that organic groups in surface compounds are easily eliminated by hydrogen treatment (Figure S1). The peaks located at 30002800 cm1 completely disappear after 80 min, which confirms the total elimination of a ligand fragment in the resulting Pt/Sn-Beta catalyst. Therefore, the Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios can be obtained by hydrogenolysis of the surface compound Pt(COD)Me/SnBu3/Beta with H2. It should be mentioned that the Pt introduced in all the sample is kept at 0.50 wt % and the nominal Sn/Pt mole ratio is varied with 0, 1/3, 1/2, 1, 2, and 3.
Figure 1
Figure 1. IR spectra of Al-Beta, Si-Beta, SnBu3/Beta, and Pt(COD)Me/SnBu3/Beta in the synthesis procedure of the Pt/Sn-Beta catalyst.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Synthesis Procedure for Pt/Sn-Beta Catalysts with Different Sn/Pt Ratios
The X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) patterns of the parent Al-Beta, Si-Beta, Sn-Beta, and Pt/Sn-Beta are shown in Figure 2. The parent Al-Beta sample exhibits diffraction peaks located at 2θ = 8.00, 8.84, 21.76, and 22.46, which are attributed to the characteristic reflection peaks of the BEA topology. (20,21,30) These diffraction peaks are still well kept in the Si-Beta sample, which is obtained from the dealumination of Al-Beta by nitric acid treatment. Therefore, the dealumination of Al-Beta has no negative effect on its crystalline structure. (20) The further loading of Sn and Pt species onto Si-Beta leads to the formation of Sn-Beta and Pt/Sn-Beta samples. The feature diffraction peaks of the BEA topology in Pt/Sn-Beta are still detectable in these samples, indicating that the crystalline structure of zeolite Beta is well preserved. Moreover, no diffraction peak relative to SnO2 and metallic Pt structure is observed, and therefore the Sn and Pt species are highly distributed in the structure of zeolite Beta.
Figure 2
Figure 2. XRD patterns of Al-Beta, Si-Beta, and Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios.
The pore architecture of these samples arising from the BEA crystalline topology can be reflected form nitrogen adsorption measurement. (30,31) The nitrogen adsorption isotherms of all the samples are shown in Figure 3. As expected, all the samples exhibit an obvious nitrogen uptake at a relative low pressure (P/P0 < 0.1), which is ascribed to the nitrogen filling in the micropore of Beta zeolite. (30) Meanwhile, an evident adsorption at a P/P0 above 0.8 is also observable in all the samples, which corresponds to the pore size distribution at around 7.5 nm. This N2 adsorption can be assigned to a great deal of interparticle pores due to the disordered agglomeration of small crystallites of the zeolite Beta, as revealed from TEM characterization below. (32) In light of the N2 adsorption result, it can be inferred that all the samples exhibit a similar N2 adsorption behavior to that of parent Al-Beta and the highly distributed Sn and Pt species in the zeolite structure has no influence on its pore architecture.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Nitrogen adsorption isotherms of Al-Beta, Si-Beta, and Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios.
Tables S1S3 summarize the physicochemical properties of Al-Beta, Si-Beta, Sn-Beta, and Pt/Sn-Beta samples. All the zeolite materials possesses a high BET surface area (510560 m2 g1) and a micropore volume around 0.20 cm3 g1, which indicates that the textural properties of Beta zeolite are well maintained after dealumination as well as the loading of Sn and Pt species. The compositions of all the catalysts were analyzed with the ICP technique. The nSi/nAl ratio in parent Al-Beta is 13.4. By contrast, the nSi/nAl ratio in Si-Beta greatly increases to 440 after washing with concentrated HNO3, indicating that the HNO3 treatment is an effective way to remove Al atoms from Beta zeolite. Al vacancies (1.20 × 103 mol) can be created in 1 g of Al-Beta in the concentrated HNO3 treatment process, but 1 g of a typical Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst contains only about 5.0 × 105 mol of Sn. Therefore, the acid treatment can produce sufficient vacancy to accommodate Sn atoms. Meanwhile, the measured Pt and Sn loading are quite close to the theoretical values that are calculated from the amount introduced in the synthesis (Table S2), proving that the grafting synthesis is an efficient approach to load Pt and Sn onto the Beta zeolite structure.
The TEM and STEM characterizations were carried out on Beta, Sn-Beta, and Pt/Sn2.00-Beta samples in order to know the morphology of the Beta zeolite support and dispersion of the PtSn bimetallic particle. (33) The TEM image in Figure S2 shows that the shape of the Beta zeolite crystal is not regular, and its particle size ranges from 400 to 1000 nm. The HR-TEM image reveals that the big particles observed in the low magnification are polycrystalline rather than single crystalline, which consists of small nanocrystals around 3050 nm. (32) The Beta zeolite without a well-defined morphology is mainly due to the intergrowth structure of polymorph A and polymorph B with different ratios. (34) The HR-TEM study on the Sn-Beta sample shows that no evident particle or amorphous structure is observable. Therefore, the Sn species is incorporated into the Beta zeolite framework, which exists as single Sn atom (Figure S3). When Pt species is loaded into the Sn-Beta sample, the PtSn particles are detectable in the structure of Sn-Beta zeolite (Figure S4). The HR-TEM image of Pt/Sn-Beta clearly shows that these PtSn particles are not located in the micropore of Beta zeolite. The HAADF-STEM characterization was further carried out on this sample to know the nature of PtSn bimetallic particles. As shown in Figure 4, it is found that ultra-small particles ranging from 1.0 to 1.4 nm with an average diameter of 1.26 nm are uniformly dispersed. It should be noted that the Pt particle is bigger than the micropore of Beta zeolite (around 0.7 nm), and therefore these particles cannot be trapped or confined in the micropore of zeolite Beta. However, the Beta zeolite possesses a large surface area (above 500 m2 g1), and therefore these particles are distributed at the surface of zeolite Beta. A higher magnification STEM image shows that these clusters are firmly anchored at the surface of Beta zeolite, so there is a strong interaction between metal particles and Beta zeolite. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping analysis visually confirms that Si, O, Pt, and Sn are homogeneously distributed in the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta sample. (35,36) It should be noted that there is no evident phase separation among these four components, and therefore it can be concluded that Sn-Beta zeolite is an excellent support for the dispersion of Pt particles. Further CO titration measurement (Table S3) shows that the dispersion of the PtSn bimetallic particle is in dependent on the ratio of Sn/Pt and a high Sn/Pt ratio leads to a slight increase in their dispersion. The dispersion of the PtSn bimetallic particle in the samples with a high Sn/Pt ratio is around 50%, suggesting that almost all of the Pt atoms are located at the surface and become accessible to the reactant.
Figure 4
Figure 4. STEM of and elemental mapping of a typical Pt/Sn2.00-Beta sample.
The electronic structure of the PtSn bimetallic particle is an important factor that affects the catalytic performance, and IR spectroscopy with CO as the probe has been proven to be an effective tool to study the local electronic environment of the bimetallic particle. (37) As shown in Figure 5, a strong adsorption located at 2075 cm1 is visible in all the Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts, which can be assigned to the linear adsorption of CO on Pt sites with saturated and unsaturated coordination. (37,38) However, a weak peak located at 1840 cm1 is also detectable in Pt/Beta and Pt/Sn-Beta samples with low Sn/Pt ratios, and this band is believed to be the bridge CO adsorption on the adjacent Pt atoms. (38,39) It should be mentioned that this type of adsorption is not observable in the Pt/Sn-Beta samples with high Sn/Pt ratios. Therefore, the doping of Pt with Sn leads to the dilution of Pt atoms in the particle, which leads to the segregation of continuous Pt island into isolated Pt atoms.
Figure 5
Figure 5. IR spectra of the CO adsorption on Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios.
The XPS measurement on Sn 3d band energy was recorded on the Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios in order to know the chemical state of Sn (Figure 6). As suggested in previous reports, the analysis of Sn 3d XPS spectra of Pt/Sn-Beta can be achieved by fitting the peak into three types of bands, which are assigned to the metallic Sn, Sn(II), and Sn(IV) species. (40,41) The bonding energies at 486.7 eV for Sn 3d5/2 and 495.1 eV for Sn 3d3/2 are a direct proof of the presence of metallic Sn. (40) The existence of oxidized Sn species including Sn(II) and Sn(IV) is evidenced from bonding energies of 485.8 and 484.9 eV for Sn 3d5/2 along with 494.2 and 493.2 eV for Sn 3d3/2. (41) Based on the XPS study result, it can be known that there are metallic Sn, Sn(II), and Sn(IV) species in these Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts. The content of each Sn species can be roughly estimated from their peak area (Table S5), and it is found that the percentage of each Sn species remains almost unchanged when the Sn/Pt ratio varies. The chemical environments of these three types of Sn species can be simply illustrated in Scheme 2. In Structure A, Sn atoms are totally incorporated into the structure of Beta zeolite, and each Sn atom is chemically bonded into the zeolite framework through four SiOSn linkages; therefore, such Sn atoms in the zeolite framework exist as Sn(IV). In Structure B, the Sn atoms stay at the interface between Beta zeolite and Pt particles, and each Sn atom is partially incorporated into the zeolite framework through two SiOSn linkages; thus, these Sn atoms exist as Sn(II). These unsaturated Sn(II) species enable to anchor the Pt particles, which serve as the linking sites to localize the Pt particles. In Structure C, the Sn atoms enter into Pt particles, which lead to the formation of a PtSn bimetallic alloy. In such a case, the Sn species in PtSn alloy exists as metallic Sn. Till now, the exact roles of different Sn species in the PtSn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation still remains controversial, and however it is generally accepted that both metallic Sn and oxidized Sn species are important for the propane dehydrogenation. (42) The doping of Pt with metallic Sn results in the dilution of Pt atoms in the particle, which leads to the segregation of continuous Pt island into isolated Pt atoms. The formation of isolated Pt sites is beneficial to increase the propylene selectivity. (37) The presence of oxidized Sn can significantly hinder the sintering of Pt nanoparticles in the harsh reaction condition due to its interaction with Pt particles. (13) The Sn(II) species in the Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts can be regarded as the anchoring sites to graft the Pt particle, and therefore the PtSn bimetallic particles are chemically grafted at the Sn site of zeolite Beta. The high percentage of Sn(II) species in the PtSn bimetallic catalyst allows the PtSn particle to be firmly localized at the surface of Beta zeolite, which will remarkably increase the thermal stability of the PtSn particle.
Figure 6
Figure 6. XPS of the Sn 3d core level of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Chemical Environments of Sn Species in Pt/Sn-Beta Catalysts
The presence of Sn(II) and Sn(IV) species in Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts can be further verified from the H2-TPR analysis (Figure 7). (13,43) Evidently, the H2-TPR profile of the Pt/Sn-Beta sample exhibits two broad reduction peaks. The first-stage reduction process starts from 320 to 720 C, and the second-stage reduction starts from 720 to 800 C. It is well known that the reduction of PtO2 species usually takes place below 300 C, and therefore it can be inferred that Pt species in the Pt/Sn-Beta sample exists as a metallic state and the observed reduction peaks are only related to the reduction of SnOx species. (4446) The first reduction peak centered at around 620 C is related to Sn4+  Sn2+ transformation, and the second peak centered at around 780 C is related to Sn2+  Sn transition. (13,47,48) Note that the reduction temperature of Sn species in the Pt/Sn-Beta sample is much higher than those of bulk SnO2 (around 400 C) and supported SnO2 (around 500 C), which indicated that there is a strong interaction between Sn and Beta zeolite. (45,49) The much higher reduction temperature of SnOx species is mainly due to the incorporation of Sn atoms into the Beta zeolite framework, which enables the SnOx species to firmly bond to the zeolite structure.
Figure 7
Figure 7. H2-TPR of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios.
The anchoring of Pt clusters onto the Sn sites in the zeolite framework can be confirmed from FTIR analysis of the pyridine adsorption. (50,51) It is well known that the incorporation of Sn atoms into the Beta zeolite structure will create Lewis acid sites, which is due to the generation of single Sn sites in the zeolite framework. (30) Pyridine as a probe molecule can interact with both Brnsted acid sites and Lewis acid sites, which result in the formation of characteristic bands at around 1540 and 1450 cm1, respectively, in the FTIR spectrum. (52) As shown in Figure 8, only Lewis acid sites can be detectable in the Sn-Beta sample, and the quantified Lewis acidity values are 41.29 μmol/g at 200 C and 10.63 μmol/g at 300 C. Nevertheless, the amount of Lewis acid sites largely decreases after loading Pt onto the Sn-Beta sample for the synthesis of the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst. The Lewis acid sites in the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst are 18.66 μmol/g at 200 C and 1.81 μmol/g at 300 C. The loss of Lewis acid sites in Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly ascribed to the anchoring of Pt species onto the Sn site, which leads to the coverage of the Lewis acid sites.
Figure 8
Figure 8. IR spectroscopy of pyridine adsorption on Sn-Beta and Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalysts at 200 and 300 C.
The developed Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts with different Sn/Pt ratios were applied in the propane dehydrogenation reaction. As shown in Figure 9, these catalysts exhibit high performance for the production of propylene from propane dehydrogenation. All the catalysts show a high level of initial propane conversion of around 50% at 570 C, and their catalytic stability is strongly dependent on the Sn/Pt ratio. A general trend can be observed: higher Sn/Pt ratios in Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts leads to an increase in the stability of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts. A high propane conversion is achieved in the Pt/Beta catalyst without Sn doping, but the propane conversion drops fast and only about 22% propane conversion is kept in this catalyst after 48 h. With the increase in Sn content in Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts, the initial propane conversion is kept almost unchanged. However, the stability of these Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts gradually enhances with the increase in Sn/Pt ratio, and accordingly the deactivation of Pt/Sn-Beta is largely inhibited. The most stable catalyst is attained in the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst, which delivers 50% propane conversion at the beginning and achieves 45% propane conversion after 2 days. Note that the Sn-Beta sample shows negligible activity in the propane dehydrogenation reaction (Figure S5). Therefore, the active site for propane dehydrogenation is Pt species, and the Sn component acts as the promoter in the Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Propane conversion and propylene selectivity over different Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts at 570 C.
In order to get a deep understanding of the deactivation behavior, it is assumed that deactivation of these catalyst follows a typical first-order deactivation mechanism. (8,53) The conversion data were fitted with the first-order deactivation model, and thus the deactivation constant kd can be obtained by the following equation: kd = {ln[(1  Xfinal)/Xfinal]  ln[(1  Xintial)/Xintial]}/t. A high kd value represents rapid deactivation and lower stability. Mean catalyst life τ is defined as the time required for rates to decrease by a factor of e1 and estimated by taking the reciprocal of the deactivation rate constants. (54) The calculated kd and τ for each catalyst are shown in Table S4. The lowest deactivation rate of 0.0063 h1 with the highest mean catalyst life of 159.0 h is found in the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta, and the results mean that Pt/Sn2.00-Beta has the best stability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction. In fact, the loss of activity in these Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the coke deposition, which can be directly evidenced from TG analysis. About 2% carbon is detected in all the deactivated catalysts after 48 h of reaction (Figure S6). Fortunately, the carbon can be eliminated by a simple combustion treatment in the air. As shown in Figure 10, the catalytic performance of the deactivated Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst can be fully restored after the regeneration treatment. Therefore, the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta is a robust catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, which delivers high stability and good regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction for the production of propylene.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Regeneration of Pt/Sn2.00-Beta for propane dehydrogenation.
The propylene selectivity is also closely relative to the Sn/Pt ratio because the doping of Sn into the Pt catalyst is believed to be able to suppress the side reaction. (6,37,55) All catalysts give a lower propylene selectivity at the initial stage, and then the propylene selectivity increases slowly and becomes stable after several hours. Among these catalysts, the Pt/Beta catalyst without Sn doping exhibits the lowest propylene selectivity of 88% after around 20 h. The propylene selectivity gradually increases with an increase in the Sn content, and even a small amount of Sn doping in the Pt/Sn0.33-Beta catalyst can promote the propylene selectivity to 95%. The highest propylene selectivity is achieved in Pt/Sn2.00-Beta and Pt/Sn3.00-Beta catalysts, which give the selectivity of 98%. The efficiency of each catalyst in propane dehydrogenation can be roughly evaluated from the propylene yield, and it is found that the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst gives a high propylene yield of 45%. Therefore, the optimized Sn/Pt ratio should be around 2 in Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts, and the obtained Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst delivers the highest efficiency for the production of propylene from propane dehydrogenation.
The optimized catalyst Pt/Sn2.00-Beta was further studied in different reaction conditions in order to get a deep understanding on its catalytic performance. The relationship between propane conversion and propylene selectivity can be obtained by varying the weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) for propane. As revealed in Figure S7, the propylene selectivity is quite stable with the propane conversion, and apparently the propylene selectivity does not change when propane conversion increases. Based on this phenomenon, it can be inferred that a parallel reaction pathway occurs in the Pt/Sn-Beta-catalyzed propane dehydrogenation reaction, which suggests that the byproducts are mainly produced from the cracking of propane rather than propylene. (8,13) In such a case, a high propane conversion and propylene selectivity can be achieved at same time, which enable to attain a high propylene yield in this catalyst. The intrinsic activity of the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst can be demonstrated from the specific activity and turnover frequencies (TOF). Figure S8 gives the specific activity and TOF value obtained under different weight hourly space velocity values. A high turnover frequency of 114 s1 and specific activity of 58.5 s1 are achieved under a WHSV for propane of 2400 h1, and these two values are higher than the performance achieved in the state-of-the-art catalysts as summarized in Figure 11. (12,13,37,5661)
Figure 11
Figure 11. TOF value achieved in the Pt/Sn2.00-Beta catalyst and other catalysts in the references.
The high performance achieved in these Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is closely related to its unique structure. The presence oxidized Sn in Pt/Sn-Beta is evidenced from H2-TPR and XPS analysis, which suggests that there is a certain level of Sn located in the Beta zeolite framework. (13,30) The metallic Sn in Pt/Sn-Beta is also detected by XPS characterization. Further CO-IR and FTIR analysis of the pyridine adsorption suggested that metallic Sn species is doped into the Pt structure, which leads to the formation of the PtSn bimetallic particle. HR-TEM and STEM characterization indicate that PtSn bimetallic particles are highly dispersed at the surface of zeolite Beta. On the basis of the characterization above, the model structure of Pt/Sn-Beta can be proposed (Figure 12a). In this structure, the formed PtSn bimetallic particles are uniformly dispersed at the surface of Beta zeolite. It should be noticed that the PtSn bimetallic particles are firmly stabilized by the Sn atoms in the Beta zeolite framework due to the affinity of Pt species toward the Sn sites. (6,35,36,55) In such a case, a strong interaction between PtSn bimetallic particles and Beta zeolite can be achieved, which greatly decreases the mobility of the PtSn particle and thus increases its stability under the harsh reaction. Therefore, it can be concluded that the isolated Sn atoms in the Beta zeolite framework play a critical role in localization of the PtSn particles in the propane dehydrogenation reaction under high temperatures.
Figure 12
Figure 12. Illustration of the (a) Pt/Sn-Beta structure and (b) Pt-Sn/Al-Beta structure.
A comparative study was carried out in order to confirm the discussed structureperformance relationship above. The Al-Beta zeolite without dealumination was impregnated with Pt and Sn precursors followed by the calcination and reduction treatments, and consequently the Pt-Sn/Al-Beta catalyst with the structure in Figure 12b was formed. The STEM in Figure S9 characterization indicates that the particle size of Pt-Sn/Al-Beta (1.8 nm) is bigger than that of the Pt/Sn-Beta catalyst (1.2 nm), and element mapping reveals that the Pt and Sn species are not uniformed distributed in the Al-Beta structure. In fact, the formed Pt-Sn/Al-Beta catalyst is much less stable than the Pt/Sn-Beta catalyst (Figure S10 and Table S6). The initial propane conversion of 45% in Pt-Sn1.00/Al-Beta decreases fast to 15% after 48 h, corresponding to a deactivation constant kd of 0.028 h1 and a mean catalyst life τ of 35.3 h. In this Pt-Sn1.00/Al-Beta catalyst, the PtSn bimetallic particles are physically distributed at the surface of Al-Beta, and thus there is no strong interaction between PtSn particles and Al-Beta zeolite. An attempt was made to regenerate the deactivated Pt-Sn/Al-Beta catalyst, and unfortunately its activity cannot be restored by combustion treatment (Figure S11). Further STEM characterization reveals that an evident agglomeration of PtSn particles was observed in this deactivated sample (Figure S12). It can be inferred that there is a weak interaction between the PtSn particle and Al-Beta support, and therefore PtSn particles are prone to sintering under the harsh reaction condition. An investigation was also performed to loading PtSn bimetallic particles onto Meso-Beta that is obtained via desilication from the alkaline treatment. The alkaline treatment is a well-established technique for the creation of mesopore in zeolite, and thus the PtSn bimetallic particle could be localized in the mesopores. Nevertheless, the activity of Pt-Sn1.00/Meso-Beta still drops quickly in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, and a deactivation constant kd of 0.024 h1 with a mean catalyst life τ of 41.5 h was observed. It can be inferred that the mesopore cannot effectively confine the PtSn particles to reduce its mobility in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
On the basis of a comparative study above, it is definitely confirmed that anchoring of Pt clusters onto the isolated Sn site in the zeolite framework is an effective strategy for the fabrication of an efficient PtSn catalyst. Interestingly, this strategy could serve as a general way of the synthesis of an efficient Pt/Sn-zeolite catalyst for the propane dehydrogenation reaction. The Sn-Y zeolite that is obtained by the incorporation of Sn into dealuminated Y was used to disperse the Pt particle for the synthesis of the Pt/Sn-Y catalyst. The achieved Pt/Sn-Y catalyst also shows high performance in propane dehydrogenation (Figures S13S15).
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, a new strategy is developed for the fabrication of highly stable Pt/Sn-zeolite catalysts, which is achieved by the stabilization of Pt clusters onto the isolated Sn sites in the zeolite framework. This strategy consists of three basic steps: (i) removal of framework Al atoms from the zeolite crystalline structure to create the lattice defects, (ii) incorporation of Sn atoms into the vacancies to form Sn-containing zeolite, (iii) soft landing of the Pt at the surface of Sn-zeolite to generate Pt/Sn-zeolite catalysts. Characterizations with XRD, STEM, XPS, CO-IR, H2-TPR, and Py-IR techniques confirm that the Pt clusters are firmly anchored on the single Sn atom incorporated zeolitic framework, which leads to high dispersion and good stability of Pt clusters at the surface of Sn-zeolite. This strategy has been successfully applied in the synthesis of Pt/Sn-Beta and Pt/Sn-Y catalysts. A propylene selectivity of above 99%, initial propane conversion of 50%, low deactivation rate of 0.006 h1, high TOF of 114 s1, and good regenerability have been achieved in the Pt-Sn2.00/Sn-Beta catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 570 C, and these performances are higher than those achieved in the state-of-the-art catalysts reported in the reference.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 