<DOCUMENT>
Selective propane dehydrogenation with single-site CoII on SiO2 by a non-redox mechanism

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021951714003030

AbstractHighlights
•
Single-site Co2+/SiO2 is a highly selective (>95%) catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propene and H2.
•
The catalyst exhibits stable activity over 24 h.
•
Single-site nature elucidated with surface Co chemistry, spectroscopic measurements, and theoretical calculations.
•
In situ XAS and computational studies are consistent with a non-redox, Lewis acid mechanism for the observed catalysis.
Abstract
We report the synthesis, characterization, and catalytic performance for gas phase propane dehydrogenation of single-site Co2+ ions supported on silica. Spectroscopic characterization by resonance Raman, electron paramagnetic resonance, and X-ray near-edge and extended absorption fine structure revealed that tetrahedrally coordinated Co2+ ions are chemisorbed into the trisiloxane rings on the surface of amorphous silica. In situ XAS shows that Co is not oxidized by air nor reduced by hydrogen even at 650 °C. For catalytic propane dehydrogenation, single-site Co2+/SiO2 exhibits selectivities >95% at 550 °C and >90% at 650 °C with stable activity over 24 h. Calculations with hybrid density functional theory support a non-redox mechanism for activation of C–H and H–H bonds by Co2+ similar to that previously reported for single-site Zn2+/SiO2.
Graphical abstract
Download : Download high-res image (62KB)
Download : Download full-size image
1. Introduction
C–H activation is a fundamental and key chemical step in hydrocarbon processing, which in turn underlies production of fuels and petrochemicals. Recently, there has been a growing interest in the use of “base metal” catalysts for hydrocarbon functionalization [1], [2], [3], [4]. Recent examples of low-temperature hydrocarbon transformations mediated by homogeneous cobalt catalysts include hydrogenation [5], [6] (with enantioselective variants reported), C–C bond formation [4], [7], [8], C–H functionalization [3], [9], [10], [11], and cycloaddition reactions [12]. These reactions occur at quite mild temperatures and are the thermodynamically exergonic reactions.
In these systems, cobalt has been found to activate C–H bonds, and commonly it is postulated the mechanism proceeds through a Co1+ intermediate and an oxidative addition/reductive elimination pathway with Co3+ in C–C bond forming reactions [7]. The reaction has also been subjected to theoretical analysis by Yang et al., and a viable redox pathway was elucidated [13]. However, we and others have found that non-redox pathways are a viable route at high temperatures [14]. Thus, it is an open question whether redox or non-redox pathways would be operative in a high-temperature, cobalt dehydrogenation catalyst.
There are a few recent examples of low-temperature, cobalt-catalyzed hydrogenation. The Chirik group has been studying bis(arylimidazol-2-ylidene)pyridine cobalt complexes, for example (iPrCNC)CoCH3 [6] and other variants [5], [6] as highly active olefin hydrogenation catalysts under very mild conditions (50 °C). Because hydrogenation of olefins is the microscopic reverse of alkane dehydrogenation, cobalt should also be catalytically active for dehydrogenation if the catalyst is stable at high temperatures. The cationic cobalt(II) alkyl complex [(PNHPCy)Co(CH2SiMe3)]BAr4 (PNHPCy = bis[(2-dicyclohexylphosphino)ethyl]amine) was reported as a pre-catalyst for alcohol dehydrogenation by Zhang and Hanson [15]. That catalyst had been previously demonstrated to be active for olefin and ketone hydrogenation [16]. A intramolecular sp3 C–H activation of the three-coordinate cobalt complex [Co(IMes)2Cl] (IMes = 1,3-dimesitylimidazol-2-ylidene) was reported by Deng et al. [17]. Such C–H activation ability indicates the promising catalytic potential of cobalt for alkane dehydrogenation.
Alkane dehydrogenation at high temperatures (500 °C) on cobalt-substituted zeolite ZSM-5 has been studied by Iglesia et al. [18], [19], who found that Co-ZSM-5 exhibits catalytic activity similar to that of Zn-ZSM-5 and Ga-ZSM-5 [20], [21], [22], [23]. However, the ion-exchange method used to incorporate cobalt into the zeolite results in formation of multiple cobalt species in the catalyst. In addition, the zeolite contains residual strong Brønsted acid sites, which also contribute significantly to catalyst reactivity. The presence of multiple active species in Co-ZSM-5 complicates elucidation of the role of cobalt in facilitating propane dehydrogenation. This complication motivates the development of a catalyst containing a single, well-defined Co species on a support containing no other active sites.
Well-defined, single-site heterogeneous catalysts have received significant attention in the literature. The use of well-defined catalytic sites enables the development of structure–function relationships, which reveal the molecular level origins of catalytic activity and selectivity and thereby guide the development of new catalytic materials. In addition, single-site catalysts often exhibit desirable catalytic properties, including greater selectivities to desired products than those observed over non-single-site catalysts of similar composition. Preparation of single-site catalysts typically requires controlled synthetic techniques [24]. A seminal example is the thermolytic molecular precursor technique, extensively developed by Tilley and coworkers (see [25] and references therein). Basset and Coperet [26], [27], [28] have examined single-site Zr and Ta hydrides supported on silica for hydrogenolysis and metathesis of alkanes. The Marks group [29] has investigated isolated ionic species supported on sulfated alumina with high activities for olefin hydrogenation and polymerization. Several groups have demonstrated that single-site oxovanadium catalysts provide greater selectivity than less well-dispersed oxovanadium catalysts for oxidation of alkanes [30], [31] and reduction of nitric oxide [32]. These examples and many other similar works [33], [34], [35], [36] demonstrate the advantageous properties exhibited by well-defined single-site catalysts prepared through controlled synthesis.
We have been interested in stabilizing single-site catalysts at high temperatures, so that reactions that are thermodynamically disfavored at room temperature can be driven at temperatures where equilibrium favors the reverse reaction. For example, a challenging but industrially important example of C–H bond activation chemistry is the dehydrogenation of propane. Propane is the simplest molecule capable of undergoing both dehydrogenation and monomolecular cracking, allowing facile comparison between the relative rates of C–H and C–C bond activation, and while thermal cracking to form ethylene and methane becomes thermodynamically favorable below 250 °C, propane dehydrogenation remains thermodynamically disfavored below about 550 °C. The high temperatures required for high conversion in the dehydrogenation reaction therefore provide a stringent challenge for catalyst selectivity and stability.
We recently reported that a single-site Zn2+ on silica catalyst is catalytically active for propane dehydrogenation, exhibiting 95% selectivity at 550 °C [37]. A density functional theory study indicates the rate-limiting step is beta-hydride elimination, which is consistent with the known stability of zinc alkyls. The active site was a low-coordinate Zn2+ ion that did not undergo a change in oxidation state during the catalytic cycle. In contrast with zinc, transition metals with partially filled d orbitals normally undergo facile β-hydride elimination and might be superior catalysts if the C–H over C–C activation selectivity remains high. For example, β-hydride elimination from a cobalt alkyl has recently been observed by the Holland group [38]. Given the recent examples of low-temperature, homogeneous Co hydrocarbon chemistry, along with observation of C–H bond activation at higher temperatures in Co-exchanged zeolites, we chose to explore whether a similar type of single-site Con+ species could be stabilized on SiO2. Moreover, cobalt is a redox-active metal which could possibly catalyze propane dehydrogenation in a different (redox) mechanism and reaction intermediates than that previously observed on the Zn2+/silica catalyst. Thus, a well-defined cobalt-on-silica catalyst is of interest as a possible propane dehydrogenation catalyst.
We report here the synthesis and characterization of a single-site Co on silica catalyst and its catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation. Monomeric hexamminecobalt(III) (CoIII(NH3)63+) was grafted onto silica surface through electrostatic absorption. The resulting material was characterized by Raman spectroscopy, electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy, and in-situ and ex-situ X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS). Four-coordinate, single-site Co2+ was confirmed as the catalytic active species for propane dehydrogenation. Raman spectroscopy indicates that cobalt ions preferentially bond to a particular subset of sites on the silica surface. Single-site Co2+/SiO2 is active for propane dehydrogenation, exhibiting high selectivity toward propene with little formation of ethylene and methane. The oxidation state of Co is unchanged under propane at reaction temperature, and no reduction was observed for Co even at 650 °C in hydrogen. Density functional theory calculations reveal a non-redox C–H activation mechanism similar to that reported previously for C–H activation on single-site Zn2+/SiO2.
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalyst preparation
Catalysts 3L and 3H (catalysts prepared from Co(III) ions at low and high cobalt loadings, respectively): 20 g of silica (Davisil 646, 35–60 mesh, 300 m2/g and 1.1 cm3/g, Aldrich) were suspended in approximately 200 mL of deionized water. The pH of the solution was adjusted to about 11 using concentrated ammonium hydroxide (NH4OH, Aldrich). In a separate flask, 0.125 g (catalyst 3L) or 5.00 g (catalyst 3H) of Co(NH3)6Cl3 (Aldrich) was dissolved in 50 mL of deionized water, and the pH adjusted to 11 with NH4OH. The basic Co(III) solution was rapidly added to the silica and stirred for 10 min at RT. The solid was allowed to settle for 5 min and the solution decanted. The resulting wet powder was vacuum filtered, rinsed several times with deionized water, and dried overnight at room temperature followed by drying overnight in air at 125 °C. Subsequently, the catalyst was calcined by ramping over 1 h to 300 °C and holding for 3 h. Total cobalt loadings by elemental analysis (Galbraith Laboratories, Inc.) were 0.1 wt% (3L) and 2.1 wt% (3H).
Catalysts 2L and 2H (catalysts prepared from Co(II) ions at low and high cobalt loadings, respectively): 20 g of silica (Davisil 646) were suspended in approximately 200 mL of deionized water. The pH of the solution was adjusted to about 11 using concentrated ammonium hydroxide. In a separate flask, 0.125 g (catalyst 2L) or 5.00 g (catalyst 2H) of Co(NO3)2·6H2O (Aldrich) was dissolved in 50 mL of deionized water, and the pH adjusted to 11 with NH4OH. In the preparation of catalyst 2H, addition of NH4OH to the solution of Co(II) nitrate led to partial precipitation of an uncharacterized product; this precipitate was removed from the solution by filtration. The remaining cobalt solution was added to the silica solution, stirred for 10 min, allowed to settle, and decanted. The resulting wet powder was rinsed several times with deionized water, dried overnight in air at 125 °C, and subsequently ramped over 1 h to 300 °C and calcined for 3 h. Total cobalt loadings by elemental analysis were 0.1 wt% (2L) and 3.1 wt% (2H).
2.2. Catalyst characterization
Co K-edge (7709.0 eV) X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements were conducted on the bending magnet beamline of the Materials Research Collaborative Access Team (MRCAT, 10-BM) at the Advanced Photon Source (APS) at Argonne National Laboratory. Ionization chambers were optimized for the maximum current with linear response (ca. 1010 photons detected per second) using 45% He in N2 (10% absorption) in the incident X-ray detector and 25% Ar in N2 (70% absorption) in the transmission X-ray detector. A cobalt metal foil and third X-ray detector were placed in the beam path beyond the transmission detector to allow acquisition of a reference spectrum concurrent with each sample measurement. Use of a custom-built reactor cell allowed samples to be pre-treated at 650 °C under flowing air or 3.5% H2 in He (Praxair), and maintained under a flowing pretreatment atmosphere while being cooled to RT and examined by XAS. To facilitate data analysis, XANES reference spectra were collected of Co(PPh3)3Cl, Co(Ac)2·2H2O, Co(acac)2·H2O, CoCl2, CoF2, Co(acac)3, Co(NH3)6Cl3, and LiCoO2 (all obtained from Aldrich). Co(III) acetylacetonate (6 Co–O at 1.91 Å [39]) was used to prepare Co–O phase and amplitude functions for EXAFS fitting of the first shell coordination. Standard fit procedures within WINXAS 3.1 software were used to fit the XAS data. The cobalt coordination environments were obtained by a least squares fit to the first nearest-neighbor shell in R-space obtained from a k2-weighted Fourier transform of the EXAFS data.
2.3. Electron paramagnetic resonance
EPR spectroscopy was conducted at X-band frequencies (9 GHz) in continuous wave mode using a Bruker ELEXSYS E580 EPR spectrometer (Bruker Biospin, Rheinstetten, Germany), equipped with a TE102 rectangular EPR resonator (Bruker ER 4102st). A helium gas-flow cryostat (Air Products, Allentown, PA) and a Lakeshore temperature controller (Westerville, OH) were used for low-temperature measurements. Spectra were recorded at 5 K. Data processing was done using Xepr (Bruker Biospin) and Matlab™ 7.11.1 (MathWorks, Natick, MA) software.
2.4. Raman spectroscopy
The excitation wavelength of 287 nm for in-situ UV Raman measurements is provided by third-harmonic generation output of a 4 kHz repetition rate, nanosecond-pulsed, wavelength-tunable Ti:Sapphire laser (Coherent, Indigo-S) [40]. The laser power delivered to the catalyst was 3 mW. UV Raman spectra were recorded with a triple-grating spectrometer (Princeton Instruments, Trivista 555) equipped with a liquid N2-cooled, UV-enhanced CCD detector. Prior to the measurement, samples were calcined at 300 °C for 4 h. In situ Raman spectra were collected at room temperature with flowing He in the fluidized bed reactor described previously [40].
2.5. Infrared spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine
For pyridine adsorption experiments, catalysts were pre-heated at 200 °C under vacuum (<5 mTorr) and cooled down to room temperature. Then, pyridine was injected through a septum by a syringe onto the catalysts under vacuum at room temperature. Catalysts were then heated at 200 °C for 1 h under vacuum to remove physisorbed pyridine. The adsorbed catalysts were cooled down to RT and mounted in an infrared cell having CaF2 windows. Nitrogen gas was used to purge the sample chamber as well as the spectrometer. The FTIR spectra were recorded using a Nicolet Nexus 670 FTIR spectrometer coupled to an MCT detector with 2 cm−1 resolution.
2.6. Catalytic testing
Catalyst performance testing was conducted in a vertical, quartz tube reactor. Gas flow was controlled using mass flow controllers, and product distribution was determined via online gas chromatography (J&W Scientific) equipped with a 50 m GS-Alumina capillary column and a flame ionization detector to which H2 (99.999%, Airgas USA) and air (<2 ppm H2O, Airgas) were also supplied. Approximately 1 g of catalyst was supported on quartz wool with an internal thermocouple placed at the top of the catalyst bed. Initially, the catalyst was purged with He (99.999%, Airgas USA) that had been further purified with an oxygen trap at 300 mL/min at room temperature, then for 15 min at 100 °C. The temperature was then raised to reaction temperature (550 °C and 650 °C for dehydrogenation; 200 °C and 550 °C for hydrogenation). Temperature was allowed to stabilize for 2–3 h before introduction of reactant gases. For propene hydrogenation, the reaction mixture comprised 88 mL/min of 4% H2/Ar mixture (Airgas USA) and 16 mL/min 4% propene/Ar mixture (Airgas), yielding a weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) of 6.0 m3 h−1 (kg catalyst)−1 on a total gas-flow basis. For propane dehydrogenation, the reaction mixture comprised 3% propane/Ar at 55 mL/min, or a WHSV of 3.3 m3 h−1 (kg catalyst)−1. These flow conditions generally resulted in less than 10% conversion; however, the flow rate and temperature were also varied to obtain higher conversions.
2.7. Density functional theory calculations
First-principles calculations based on the hybrid density functional theory (B3LYP) [41] have been performed to investigate the C–H activation mechanism in propane by Co/SiO2 catalysts. The catalyst surface is represented using a cluster model consisting of different size siloxane rings (silsesquioxane), which has been shown [42] to be a good approximation of the local structure of surface sites on amorphous silica. Since electronic effects on amorphous silica are mostly local, cluster models are reasonably accurate for studying chemical reactions. The structure optimizations and free energy calculations of different reaction intermediates and transition states were performed using Gaussian-09 quantum chemistry software [43]. The accuracy of transition state calculations was verified by performing intrinsic reaction coordinate scans [43], [44] and by frequency analysis. Triple-zeta quality (TZVP) basis sets [45] were used to perform all calculations. Computed energies reported in this paper are estimated Gibbs free energies, calculated in the rigid rotor-harmonic oscillator approximation.
3. Results
3.1. Catalyst synthesis and characterization
The method of strong electrostatic absorption was used to prepare a monolayer of chemisorbed Co3+ on SiO2. This method utilizes charge balance to bind a cation complex to a negatively charged silica surface in basic solution. The resulting orange powder is easily prepared on multigram scale and serves as a convenient entry point into surface-stabilized Co ions. Upon mild drying/calcination at 100–120 °C, the color changes to a vivid “cobalt” blue. This color is well known to be a result of pseudo-tetrahedral Co2+ and persists in under a variety of conditions (He, air, and H2), including during dehydrogenation catalysis up to 650 °C. The coordination environment of the Co on the surface under these different conditions as well as the nature of these transformations was interrogated by a variety of techniques, including X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), electron paramagnetic spectroscopy (EPR), resonance Raman spectroscopy, and infrared spectroscopy.
3.2. X-ray absorption spectroscopy
The oxidation state and coordination environment at cobalt in catalyst 3H were investigated at each step from pre-catalyst synthesis to in-situ investigation of the working catalyst using X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). In this technique, incident X-rays are used to excite Co 1s electrons. Depending on the energy of the incident X-ray, a variety of phenomena may be observed. When the incident X-ray energy is similar to the Co 1s binding energy, core electrons are photo-excited into the valence states with the typical dipole selection rules. The 1s to 3d transition, which is formally forbidden since the states differ by more than one orbital angular momentum quantum number, is enabled by spin–orbit coupling between the 1s j = 1/2 state and the 3d j = 3/2 state. Spin–orbit coupling in Co, however, is relatively weak, resulting in a small pre-edge peak at lower energy than the absorption edge. When the ligand environment around cobalt lacks a center of inversion, this feature is more evident. As a result, it is larger for tetrahedrally coordinated than for octahedrally coordinated Co. The energy level of the 3d electrons is a strong function of the occupancy of the 3d states; thus, the energy difference between the 1s and 3d states is diagnostic of the oxidation state of the metal.
At higher X-ray energies, the Co 1s electrons are excited directly into unoccupied Co np orbitals (n ⩾ 4). This allowed transition leads to strong X-ray adsorption up to the Co 1s ionization limit and gives rise to a prominent adsorption edge. Since the Co 4p orbitals participate in cobalt-ligand bonding, the energy of the adsorption edge is a function of the ligand environment around Co. Within a ligand family, the edge energy often correlates with the average formal oxidation state. For example, the edge energy increases systematically for the series Co, CoO, Co3O4 (i.e. from Co0 to Co2+ to Co2+/3+). However, edge energies are typically not comparable across different ligand families, for example, the edge energies of CoO and CoCl2 differ even though both contain Co2+. For this reason, determination of the oxidation state at the metal using the pre-edge feature, which directly measures 1s → 3d excitation, is more reliable than determination of the oxidation state using the edge energy [46]. The validity of this method is demonstrated in Table 1, which shows that the pre-edge adsorption energy is a reliable indicator of the formal oxidation state regardless of the chemical composition of the compound. Collection and analysis of the edge and pre-edge features of the X-ray absorption spectrum is referred to as XANES, or X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy.
Table 1. XANES pre-edge energies of cobalt reference compounds in various oxidation states.
Reference sample XANES pre-edge energy (eV) Oxidation state
Co(NH3)6Cl3 7710.1 +3
LiCoO2 7710.1 +3
Co(AcAc)3 7710.2 +3
Co(AcAc)2 7709.7 +2
Co(Acetate)2 7709.7 +2
CoCl2 7709.6 +2
CoF2 7709.6 +2
ClCo(PPh3)3 7708.8 +1
Co Foil 7709.0 (Calibration)
When the energy of an incident X-ray exceeds the ionization energy of the Co 1s electron, the electron is ejected from the atom via the photoelectric effect. The kinetic energy of the outgoing photoelectron has a characteristic wavelength and scatters off atoms neighboring the Co atom. The outgoing photoelectron wave interferes constructively or destructively with the incoming X-ray wave in a manner that depends upon the X-ray energy and the number, type, and bond distance(s) of the neighboring atoms. The resulting X-ray absorption vs. energy data, referred to as the X-ray absorption fine structure or EXAFS spectrum, provides information about the local coordination environment around the absorbing Co atom.
The cobalt oxidation state, as determined from XANES, and coordination environment, as determined from EXAFS, in catalyst 3H at various stages of catalyst synthesis are shown in Table 2. The Co(NH3)6Cl3 precursor exhibits a pre-edge adsorption at 7710.1 eV, consistent with a +3 formal oxidation state. EXAFS reveals that the first coordination shell around Co consists of six ligands at an average distance of 1.97 Å, consistent with the octahedral coordination and average Co–N bond distance of 1.963 Å observed [47] in crystalline Co(NH3)6Cl3. When the precursor is deposited on silica followed by drying at RT, the oxidation state by XANES remains +3, and the average coordination number and first neighbor bond distance remain 5.8 and 1.96 Å, respectively. The essentially unchanged coordination number and bond length support the interpretation that the Co(NH3)63+ structure adsorbed unchanged onto the silica surface, with the +3 charge balanced by three outer sphere SiO− anions.
Table 2. Cobalt formal oxidation state and coordination environment from EXAFS.
Treatment Pre-edge energy (eV) Formal oxidation state Coordination number Nearest-neighbor distance (Å) Nearest neighbor
Co(NH3)6Cl3 7710.1 +3 6.0 1.97 Co–N
Dry RT 7710.1 +3 5.8 1.96 Co–N
Dry 125 °C 7709.3 +2 4.1 2.03 Co–N
Calcine 300 °C 7709.4 +2 3.9 1.98 Co–O
Air 550 °C 7709.4 +2 4.1 1.98 Co–O
He 550 °C 7709.4 +2 4.0 1.98 Co–O
He 550 °C (at 550 °C) 7709.4 +2 4.0 1.97 Co–O
Propane 550 °C (cooled to RT) 7709.4 +2 4.0 1.97 Co–O
Propane 550 °C (at 550 °C) 7709.3 +2 4.0 1.96 Co–O
Upon heating to 125 °C, the position of the Co pre-edge feature decreases from 7710.1 eV to 7709.3 eV, consistent with a change in oxidation state from +3 to +2. The average first nearest-neighbor coordination number decreases to 4.1, and the average distance to these neighbors increases to 2.03 Å. A similar 2.01 Å distance has been measured [48] by EXAFS for the Co–N distance in tetrahedral Co(pa)42+ where pa = propylamine. The increase in average nearest-neighbor distance upon loss of coordination can be attributed to the greater Co–N distance for Co2+ as compared to Co3+: the ionic radius of Co2+ is estimated [49] to be ∼0.16 Å greater than that of Co3+. For comparison, note that in octahedral Co2+(NH3)6Cl2, the Co–N bond distance is 2.164 Å, still longer than that observed in the catalyst after heating to 125 °C.
Upon heating in air to 300 °C or 550 °C, no further changes in cobalt oxidation state are observed. Thus, once formed, Co2+ ions do not reoxidize to Co3+ even in air at 550 °C. The average coordination number suggests that the Co2+ coordination geometry remains four coordinate, with average coordination numbers of 3.9 and 4.1 observed at 300 °C and 550 °C, respectively. There is, however, a slight decrease in the average distance to the first nearest-neighbor shell, from 2.03 Å to 1.98 Å, upon heating from 125 °C to 300 °C. This change may reflect replacement of N with O in the first coordination sphere around Co. This interpretation is supported by IR spectroscopy (not shown), which suggests that no N–H vibrations are observable in the catalyst after heating to 300 °C. The Co–O distance for tetrahedral Co2+ in Co3O4 is 1.947 Å, while Co–O distances vary from 1.906 Å to 1.992 Å for tetrahedral Co2+ ions in mesoporous cobalt phosphate [50].
In addition to the first nearest-neighbor (Co–O) scattering shell observed at 1.5 Å in the (Fig. 1b, phase-uncorrected) Fourier-transformed EXAFS data for sample 3H heated above 300 °C, a small scattering peak is also observable near 2.5 Å. This peak could arise from second nearest-neighbor scattering of silicon atoms in Co–O–Si structures. A distribution of possible Co–O–Si distances and bond angles is expected to exist for Co grafted to an amorphous silica support. Only weak scattering from Si second nearest neighbors is expected since the intensity of the scattering decreases rapidly with increasing distance. It is also possible that the peak near 2.5 Å indicates the presence of Co–Co scattering from Co–O–Co dimers or small oligomeric structures; the presence of such structures cannot be unequivocally ruled out by EXAFS analysis and is addressed by other techniques detailed below. The presence of particles with the rocksalt CoO structure, however, can be definitively ruled out, since the Co–O coordination number and bond distance, 6 and 2.09 Å, respectively, do not match those of the catalyst. The presence of dimeric or small oligomeric CoxOy clusters is also ruled out via EPR experiments detailed below.
Download : Download high-res image (267KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. (a) XANES spectra of catalyst 3H after drying at RT (black), heating to 125 °C (blue), and calcining at 300 °C (red). (b) k2-weighted magnitude of the Fourier transform of the EXAFS from k = 2.6 to 10.8 Å−1 of catalyst 3H after drying at RT (black), heating to 125 °C (blue), and calcining at 300 °C (red). Spectra identical to that shown in red are obtained upon heating to 550 °C in air, helium, or propane. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
XAS was also used to analyze the oxidation state and coordination environment of catalyst 3H under high-temperature inert and working catalytic conditions. Exposure to helium at 550 °C, hydrogen at 550 °C, and propane at 550 °C each yielded XAS spectra identical to that obtained during exposure to oxygen at 550 °C (Table 2). Cobalt ions remain four coordinate and in the +2 oxidation state regardless of gas phase environment under catalytic conditions. There is no evidence for oxidation to Co3+ in air, no evidence for reduction to Co0 in hydrogen or propane, and no evidence for change in the structure or coordination environment at the Co2+ catalytic site. Similar recalcitrance to changes in oxidation state has been observed for Co2+ exchanged zeolites [19].
3.3. EPR spectroscopy
While XAS confirms that catalyst 3H contains only four-coordinate Co2+ and the absence of bulk CoOx phases, the existence of dimeric or small oligomeric CoxOy clusters with non-bulk-like structures cannot be excluded from EXAFS analysis. As noted above, the presence of Co1+ and Co3+ in the sample has not been observed by EXAFS/XAS, nor could be generated upon exposure to oxygen or hydrogen, even at high temperatures. Since tetrahedrally coordinated Co2+ is an electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) active ion, we investigated the nuclearity of cobalt in the catalyst by this technique. The EPR spectra of catalysts 3L and 3H are shown in Fig. 2. The shape of the two spectra is nearly identical, with a single prominent peak evident around g = 5.4 appearing in both spectra. The greater intensity of this peak in sample 3H is a result of the greater number of magnetic centers present (2.1 wt% Co in 3H vs. 0.1 wt% Co in 3L). The narrow signal at the free electron value g = 2.0, frequently observed in EPR measurements on powdered samples, is most likely due to ppm levels of radicals or defects in the support material, and is not attributed to cobalt. The spectra in Fig. 2 are essentially identical to those reported by Dzwigaj and Che for isolated tetrahedral Co2+ incorporated into beta zeolite [51], by Weckhuysen and coworkers for Co2+ incorporated in microporous crystalline aluminophosphates [52], and by Iton and coworkers for isolated tetrahedral Co2+ species substituted into an aluminophosphate molecular sieve framework [53]. Tetrahedral Co2+ in CoAl2O4 spinel and tetrahedral CoCl42− ions in an AgCl matrix both also yield similarly shaped spectra [54]. Thus, the EPR results of 3L and 3H are consistent with the presence of magnetically isolated (no significant electron dipolar or exchange interaction with neighboring Co2+ sites), high-spin, tetrahedrally coordinated d7 Co2+.
Download : Download high-res image (122KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Continuous wave X-band EPR spectra of catalysts 3L (blue; top) and 3H (green; bottom) at 5 K. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
3.4. Raman spectroscopy
In order to obtain further information about the local structure surrounding supported Co2+ cations, in situ UV Raman spectra were collected on catalyst 3H under flowing He after treatment at 300 °C in 5% flowing O2, and compared to the Raman spectrum of the silica. The results are shown in Fig. 3a and b. The Raman spectrum in Fig. 3a of Co/SiO2 shows no evidence for the presence of CoO (455 and 675 cm−1), CoOOH (367, 482, 599, and 809 cm−1), or Co3O4 (482, 519, 621, and 690 cm−1) phases [55]. A notable band at 608 cm−1 present in the silica is absent in samples containing Co. The disappearance of this mode upon incorporation of Co onto the SiO2 surface can be rationalized by the model shown in Fig. 4. The vibrational mode at 608 cm−1 is attributable to the symmetric stretching mode of trisiloxane rings (Fig. 4a) present in partially dehydroxylated silica [56]. Such rings are formed via condensation of neighboring silanol groups upon heating at or above 300 °C. In the basic aqueous media used to impregnate cobalt onto the SiO2 support, these trisiloxane rings are rehydrated (Fig. 4b). The resulting silanol groups are oriented such that they are well suited to serving as anchoring sites for cobalt atoms, which assume roughly tetrahedral coordination environments upon attachment to the support (Fig. 4c). Silanol groups linked to cobalt cannot condense to re-form trisiloxane rings; as a result, the Raman mode observed at 608 cm−1 in dehydrated silica does not reappear when the catalyst is heated to 300 °C. Although Raman spectroscopy is generally not quantitative, comparison of the peak intensity at 608 cm−1 between the silica and the Co-grafted samples obtained under identical conditions after the same treatment at 300 °C suggests that most of the opened trisiloxane rings become anchoring points for grafted Co. These results are similar to those obtained for Zn grafting to SiO2 in previous work [37].
Download : Download high-res image (144KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Raman spectra of sample 3H (red; top trace) and silica (blue; bottom trace) after calcination in air at 300 °C. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Download : Download high-res image (116KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Dehydrated silica contains trisiloxane rings (a) which are opened to form silanol groups (b) upon exposure to aqueous base. These trisiloxane groups can then act as anchoring sites for cobalt (c).
Additional information on the structure of the Co grafting site is evident in Fig. 3a in changes to the peak near 978 cm−1 upon grafting of Co. This peak, assigned to the Si–O stretching mode of terminal silanols [56], develops a pronounced shoulder at ∼927 cm−1 after Co grafting. Likewise, the peak at 3740 cm−1 in Fig. 3b assigned to the O–H stretching mode of terminal silanols develops a pronounced shoulder at ∼3705 cm−1 after Co grafting. In both spectra, the shoulder can be reasonably assigned to silanol groups perturbed by dative interactions with adjacent Co, as shown in Fig. 4c. The isolated silanol O–H stretching mode in Fig. 3b also exhibits an ∼3 cm−1 redshift on the Co-grafted sample as compared to the position observed in the bare silica, and a more prominent broad peak in the hydrogen bonded silanol O–H stretching region from 3300 to 3700 cm−1. These changes suggest that the silica surface undergoes structural modification during Co grafting.
3.5. Infrared spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine
The infrared spectrum of adsorbed pyridine is characteristic of the type of adsorption sites, for example, Lewis or Brønsted acid sites. After exposure to pyridine vapor followed by evacuation under vacuum, catalyst 3H shows IR adsorption bands at 1612 cm−1, 1492 cm−1, and 1451 cm−1 that are attributed to pyridine adsorbed on Lewis acid sites, while the bare silica support does not show these bands. Bands near 1630 cm−1 and 1545 cm−1 assignable to pyridine adsorbed on Brønsted acid sites are not observed. The IR results indicate the presence of significant Lewis acidity, but no Brønsted acidity, on catalyst 3H. Thus, isolated, tetrahedral Co2+ cations supported on silica are Lewis acid sites.
3.6. Catalytic activity of isolated, tetrahedral Co2+ on SiO2
The activity of catalyst 3H for propane dehydrogenation was investigated at 550 °C. At this temperature, equilibrium conversion is ∼29%. We determined the overall turnover frequency (TOF; mol propene per mol Co per hour) under differential conditions with an initial conversion level is 4%, corresponding to a TOF of 0.66 h−1 (Fig. 5a). The rate increased steadily with time on stream, approaching 10% conversion and a turnover frequency of 1.76 h−1 after 20 h. The selectivity also increased slightly with time on stream, from 91% approaching a limiting value of 95% selectivity to propene. Note that this selectivity (and conversion) value has been corrected for background contributions from thermal cracking of propane, as measured over cobalt-free silica under the same conditions. At 550 °C, propane conversion due to cracking amounts to 0.6% and is ∼52% selective to propene [57]. The carbon balance for the reaction was 100% within error. Coke formation was negligible at 550 °C, even after 24 h on stream. After a 24-h run, the physical appearance of the materials was white and cobalt blue, respectively. The spent catalyst and support were subjected to elemental analysis, and the detected C on both materials was less than the detection limit of 0.5%. As a result, it can be inferred that propene does not undergo further dehydrogenation on Co/SiO2 under the conditions studied.
Download : Download high-res image (151KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Activity (a) and selectivity (b) of 2.1 wt% Co/SiO2 for dehydrogenation of propane at 550 °C.
The dehydrogenation activity of the same catalyst was further tested at 650 °C. As shown in Fig. 6a, initial propane conversion was 60%, near to the 65% equilibrium limit at this temperature. The observed initial turnover frequency of 16 h−1 may, therefore, underestimate the true initial turnover frequency. However, activity decreased steadily with time on stream: after 20 h, conversion had fallen to 35%, and the turnover frequency decreased to 8.3 h−1. Measured selectivity to propene increased from 86% initially to 95% after 20 h as shown in Fig. 6b. These selectivities have again been corrected for contributions from thermal cracking, which accounts for nearly 8% propane conversion at 650 °C. Coke formation was also significant at 650 °C. Although no attempt was made to quantify coke formation, the spent catalyst was visibly covered by carbon after 20 h on stream. Since non-catalytic cracking reactions contribute significantly to the overall rate at 650 °C, it is not immediately obvious whether coke formation can be attributed to processes involving cobalt sites. Investigation of catalyst deactivation mechanisms, and strategies for catalyst regeneration, is beyond the scope of the present work. However, we note that the fresh catalyst is air stable at 650 °C. If catalyst deactivation is the result of coke buildup on the catalyst surface, then it is likely that the Co/SiO2 catalyst can be regenerated.
Download : Download high-res image (135KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Activity (a) and selectivity (b) of 2.1 wt% Co/SiO2 for dehydrogenation of propane at 650 °C.
Since hydrogenation of propene is the microscopic reverse of dehydrogenation of propane, it was expected that catalyst 3H should also be active for propene hydrogenation at 550 °C. This expectation is confirmed by the results in Fig. 7. The catalyst is active for propene hydrogenation, and essentially stable rates are observed over the first 45 min on stream (the duration of the test).
Download : Download high-res image (88KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Propene hydrogenation activity over catalyst 3H at 550 °C (green triangles) and 200 °C (red squares). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Given that the related Zn/SiO2 catalyst is active for propene hydrogenation at temperatures as low as 200 °C, the Co/SiO2 catalyst was also tested at this lower temperature. As also shown in Fig. 7, initially, hydrogenation activity is observed over Co/SiO2 at 200 °C. However, the rate decreases rapidly upon continued exposure of the catalyst to propene. The activity can be recovered completely by H2 treatment in the absence of propene; reintroduction of propene results in the same initial activity followed by rapid deactivation. A postulated mechanism for propene hydrogenation that explains these observations is presented below.
3.7. Alternate synthetic approaches
While catalyst 3H was prepared from a Co(III) precursor, under working catalytic conditions the oxidation state of Co is +2, unaltered by exposure to either hydrogen or oxygen at 550 °C. It was, therefore, of interest to compare results from the catalyst prepared directly from a Co(II) precursor. Substitution of CoII(NO3)2·6H2O (in excess NH4OH) in place of CoIII(NH3)6Cl3 as a cobalt source resulted in significant changes in the resulting pre-catalyst. The loading of Co as determined by elemental analysis was substantially higher with the Co(II) precursor, reaching 3.1 wt% in catalyst 2H as opposed to 2.1 wt% from Co(III) in catalyst 3H. Note that in both cases, sufficient cobalt precursor was used to enable a final weight loading of up to 5.0 wt%, so differences in final cobalt loading are indicative of differences in the grafting chemistry. The Co2+-derived catalyst 2H was brown in color, rather than the cobalt blue color expected for isolated tetrahedral Co2+ sites, immediately indicating the existence of Co in a different coordination environment.
Fig. 8 compares the EXAFS spectra of sample 2H, produced from Co(II), to that of sample 3H, produced from Co(III). The samples in Fig. 8 have been calcined at 300 °C in air, and both contain Co2+ by XANES analysis. The first shell coordination peak for sample 2H is significantly larger than that of 3H, suggesting six-coordinate Co in 2H as opposed to the four-coordinate Co present in 3H. The peak positions are also different: after correcting for phase, the nearest-neighbor distance in sample 2H is 2.09 Å, significantly longer than the 1.98 Å nearest-neighbor distance measured for sample 3H. An average Co–O distance of 2.08 Å has been measured by EXAFS for the CoII(H2O)62+ ion in solution, while the Co–O distance in bulk CoO is a slightly longer 2.13 Å. The Co–OH bond distance [58] for octahedral Co in α-CoII(OH)2 is 2.12 Å.
Download : Download high-res image (126KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Fourier-transformed k2-weighted EXAFS spectra of samples 3H (red) and 2H (blue). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Additional dramatic differences between the samples are visible in the second coordination shell. As discussed above, sample 3H contains only a weak peak at ∼2.5 Å that could be attributed either to Co–O–Si scattering or to small, non-bulk-like Co–O–Co structures (and the presence of the latter is ruled out by EPR results). For sample 2H, the second coordination shell is centered at a slightly greater distance of 2.6 Å and has intensity nearly equal to that of the first coordination shell peak. These results are consistent with Co being present in an environment similar to that found in bulk CoO, in which 12 equidistant Co second nearest neighbors provide a strong signal for the second coordination shell. Some evidence can also be seen for a third coordination shell peak near 3.6 Å, also consistent with an ordered crystalline CoO phase.
Further evidence for different cobalt environments in catalysts 2H and 3H was obtained by EPR spectroscopy. Fig. 9 presents the EPR spectra for catalysts 2L and 2H collected at 5 K after calcination at 300 °C in air. The spectrum for catalyst 2L is nearly identical to that for catalyst 3L presented in Fig. 3 above, indicating the presence of high-spin, tetrahedrally coordinated Co2+ ions in catalyst 2L. By contrast, the spectrum of catalyst 2H differs significantly from those of 2L, 3H, and 3L, particularly in the range below 100 mT. This result indicates the presence of additional Co2+ species present in catalyst 2H with local environments that differ from those found in the other catalysts. Unlike the other three materials, catalyst 2H also exhibits a well-resolved EPR spectrum at 295 K (not shown), further demonstrating the presence of additional populations of Co2+ ions in 2H not found in 2L, 3H, or 3L.
Download : Download high-res image (68KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Continuous wave X-band EPR spectra of catalysts 2L (blue; top) and 2H (red; bottom) at 5 K. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Sample 2H was further examined under in situ conditions for propane dehydrogenation at 550 °C. As seen in Fig. 10, under catalytic reaction conditions, the EXAFS spectrum of catalyst 2H evolves significantly, becoming quite similar to that of sample 3H. The first coordination shell peak decreases to an intensity consistent with tetrahedral coordination, and the nearest-neighbor distance decreases to 1.98 Å—identical to the distance recorded for sample 3H. The second coordination shell also decreases significantly in intensity, falling almost to the level observed in sample 3H. These results suggest that bulk-like CoO clusters formed from direct grafting of the Co(II) precursor onto silica are able to disperse and create significant populations of isolated, tetrahedral Co(II) sites upon heating to 550 °C. Similar results have been reported for dispersion of NiO on silica at high temperatures [59]. This observation is further supported by catalytic data, which yield similar rates of propane dehydrogenation on catalyst 3H and 2H on a per-cobalt-atom basis. The significant differences between the structure of the as-prepared 2H catalyst after calcination in air at 300 °C and the structure of the working catalyst observed in situ at 550 °C underscore the crucial importance of characterizing catalysts under in situ conditions.
Download : Download high-res image (148KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. EXAFS spectra of sample 2H after calcination in air at 300 °C (blue) and under propane dehydrogenation conditions at 550 °C (red). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
4. Discussion
4.1. Catalyst synthesis
Fully hydroxylated silica typically [60] has a surface silanol density of ∼5 SiOH/nm2. For silica with a surface area of 300 m2/g, this density equates to 2.4 mmol SiOH/g SiO2. If 100% of these silanol groups participate in cobalt grafting, and each cobalt is attached to three surface silanol groups, with no silanol group anchoring more than one cobalt, then the maximum cobalt loading is 0.80 mmol Co/g SiO2, or 4.3 wt% Co. The cobalt loading in sample 3H was 2.1 wt%, allowing the possibility that up to 100% of the Co in this sample exists as isolated Co centers anchored to the silica support in tridentate fashion. The initial solution used to supply the Co during the synthesis of sample 3H contained sufficient cobalt to allow for a final weight loading of 5.0 wt%. That a lower loading of 2.1 wt% was produced suggests (1) not all of the silanol groups on the silica surface have geometries conducive to participation in tridentate binding of cobalt, and (2) Co grafting is self-limiting, in that once all the tridentate anchoring sites are consumed, no further Co grafting takes place. Given the multitude of different silanol environments present on the surface of amorphous silica, result (1) is reasonable. Result (2) is also reasonable, as positively charged Co(NH3)63+ ions anchored to the surface should repel other positively charged Co(NH3)63+ ions in solution, preventing additional ions from grafting nearby.
The cobalt loading obtained upon preparation of the catalyst using a Co(II) precursor was 3.1 wt%, roughly 50% higher than that obtained using a Co(III) precursor. A simple interpretation consistent with the observed loadings is that 50% more Co2+ ions than Co3+ ions are required to balance the number of negatively charged SiO− groups generated on the silica surface at pH 11. However, spectroscopic characterization of the as-prepared catalysts suggests greater differences in the grafting chemistry of the Co(II) and Co(III) precursors than can be attributed to charge alone: the Co(III) precursor led to formation of exclusively isolated tetrahedral Co2+ centers upon calcination at 300 °C, whereas the Co(II) precursor produced aggregated, bulk-CoO-like structures which only dispersed upon further heating to 550 °C. Differences in the grafting chemistry of Co(II) and Co(III) can be understood by examining the aqueous chemistry of these ions, and the role of ligands and pH on the speciation of aqueous cobalt.
In order to synthesize well-defined surface transition metal species by strong electrostatic absorption, it is critical to control the formation of metal species in water. The aqueous coordination chemistry of Co2+ and Co3+ first studied by Werner provides a classic platform upon which to probe the influence of precursor chemistry on catalyst structure. Simple crystal field stabilization energy (CFSE) arguments explain the stability of [CoIII(NH3)6]3+ as a d6 octahedral, low-spin, and stable cation as well as the labile nature of [CoII(NH3)6]2+. As discussed below, the inertness of [CoIII(NH3)6]3+ to substitution, vs. the lability of [CoII(NH3)6]2+, is the primary cause of the differences in grafting chemistry between these two precursors.
The grafting procedure involves exposing the silica support to concentrated ammonium hydroxide, which deprotonates surface silanol groups to form SiO− anions. Since the point of zero charge for silica occurs below pH 3.5, at pH 11 essentially all of the surface silanols are deprotonated. These negatively charged sites attract positively charged Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)xy+ (0 ⩽ x ⩽ 6, y = 2 or 3) cations out of solution and bind them to the silica surface. Once anchored, positively charged Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)xy+ ions at the silica surface repel additional positively charged Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)xy+ ions in solution. Thus, as long as Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)xy+ ions are stable in solution, the grafting reaction is self-limiting, and the surface will adhere only enough positively charged Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)xy+ ions to balance the number of SiO− groups at the surface of the silica. The success of the grafting procedure is, therefore, controlled by the stability of Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)xy+ ions in solution.
The Co(III) precursor, CoIII(NH3)6Cl3, contains the CoIII(NH3)63+ ion (x = 6, y = 3). Substitution of H2O for NH3 is disfavored above pH 4.85, and ligand substitution is in any case kinetically hindered for this low-spin, octahedral d6 species. The redox potential E° for the CoII(NH3)62+/CoIII(NH3)63+ couple is +1.81 V, so the +3 oxidation state is strongly favored for the hexammine ion. Cobalt hexammine ions undergo neither protonation nor deprotonation in aqueous solution. Thus, the CoIII(NH3)63+ ion is stable in basic aqueous media. Each CoIII(NH3)63+ ion can titrate three SiO− groups on the silica surface, leading to a theoretical maximum cobalt loading of ∼1.6 Co/nm2. The experimentally observed 2.1 wt% loading produced upon exposure of silica to an excess of hexamminecobalt(III) solution corresponds to ∼0.65 Co/nm2, well below the theoretical maximum surface coverage and indicating that either not all surface silanol groups are favorable for cobalt grafting, and/or repulsion between surface-bound Co(NH3)63+ ions is sufficiently strong to limit surface grafting to less than one monolayer coverage. Upon drying under vacuum at room temperature, the oxidation state of the cobalt remains +3. It is known that OH− ions do not displace NH3 ligands from hexamminecobalt(III), so it is likely that the less basic surface SiO− ions are also unable to displace NH3 at room temperature. The surface of the pre-catalyst after drying at room temperature is therefore most likely populated by ion-paired structures of the type Co(NH3)63+·3SiO−.
The Co(II) precursor, Co(NO3)2·6H2O, yields the Co(H2O)62+ ion (x = 0, y = 2) in solution. This ion is not stable in basic conditions: at pH > 7, insoluble Co(OH)2 precipitates from a process initiated by reaction (1). In sufficiently basic environments, some Co(OH)2 (s) redissolves to produce Co(OH)42− ions. However, the negative charge on these ions repels them from negatively charged surface SiO− group, so such ions would remain in solution rather than charge balancing a silica surface.
(1)
(2)
In the presence of aqueous ammonia, ligand exchange to form mixed Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)x2+ ions is also possible (2), and in fact the hexammine (x = 6) species is thermodynamically favored above pH 9.8 [61]. Thus, reactions (1) and (2) are in competition. As a result, precipitation of cobalt hydroxides was not observed in the preparation of sample 2L, and observed to only a limited extent in the preparation of sample 2H. The low-spin octahedral d7 Co(NH3)62+ ion is substitutionally labile and therefore able to form surface-bound species of the type Co(OSi)(NH3)5+ and Co(OSi)2(NH3)4 upon interaction with surface SiO− groups. Interaction between surface-bound Co complexes and OH− ions in solution can also produce species such as Co(OSi)(OH)(NH3)4 and Co(OSi)2(OH)(NH3)3−. As a result of the neutral or anionic charges of such species, the cobalt grafting reaction ceases to be self-limiting, and sites containing anchored cobalt can become favorable locations for further cobalt grafting. In sample 2H, this leads to a higher cobalt weight loading than that observed using the self-limiting Co(III) precursor (3.1 wt% for 2H vs 2.1 wt% for 3H), and leads also to production of a rocksalt-structured CoO phase upon calcination at 300 °C (as observed by EXAFS). Only in a solution containing a very low concentration of Co(II) precursor, such as that used to prepare sample 2L (0.1 wt%), can isolated Co2+ ions be produced on silica. Production of a cubic CoO phase in this case is not prevented by a self-limiting grafting reaction, but by simple statistics: a Co loading of 0.1 wt% corresponds to a surface coverage of only 2.3% of one monolayer. Additionally, the stability of 3H after calcination shows that once synthesized, isolated CoII sites on SiO2 are stable, so at low loading it is possible to obtain isolated CoII.
While the formation of isolated cobalt centers on silica from a Co(III) precursor can be explained in terms of the solution chemistry of hexamminecobalt(III), it remains to explain how this Co3+ precursor results in production of a redox-inactive Co2+ site in the final catalyst. This can be explained from the known properties of the hexamminecobalt(III) ion. Upon heating above 80 °C, the color of pre-catalyst 3H changes from orange to blue, and signals attributable to Co2+ appear in the XANES. It is notable that 80 °C is also the temperature at which aqueous solutions of cobalt hexammine(III) undergo reduction. Newton and Swaddle [62] have studied the thermal decomposition of aqueous hexamminecobalt(III) and proposed the following decomposition pathway:
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
The first step is rate limiting and does not depend on pH. Some reduction is also observed from the diaqua complex, but there is no evidence for formation of CoII(NH3)62+ or CoII(H2O)(NH3)52+ complexes during thermal decomposition of hexamminecobalt(III). The absence of these species is explained by Ji et al. [61], who showed that the standard reduction potentials for Co(H2O)6−x(NH3)x2+/3+ couples decrease monotonically with x, from +1.81 V for the hexammine to only +0.02 V for the hexaaqua complex. As a result, reduction of Co(III) is not thermodynamically favorable until at least two amine ligands have been displaced. Ligand substitution at octahedral Co3+ proceeds by a dissociative mechanism, the rate of which is governed only by the activation barrier for the process CoIII(NH3)63+ → CoIII(NH3)53+ + NH3. This dissociative process is identical whether it occurs in aqueous solution or on the surface of silica, and the rate of this process is what ultimately determines the rate of reduction of hexamminecobalt(III) to cobalt(II). It is therefore entirely expected that reduction of CoIII(NH3)63+ occurs at the same temperature whether in solution or on the surface of silica.
We propose that formation of tetrahedral Co2+ from hexamminecobalt(III) on silica occurs according to
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
Steps (7)–(9), in which the silica surface evolves from outer sphere anion to mono-, bi-, and tri-dentate ligand for Co3+, are analogous to steps (3)–(5) in the aqueous decomposition mechanism above; likewise, step (10) is analogous to aqueous decomposition step (6). No attempt has been made to elucidate the details of the reduction mechanism as it occurs on silica. However, the absence of N–H stretches in the IR spectrum of the final catalyst (not shown) suggests that all six amine ligands are eventually lost either to desorption or to oxidation.
4.2. The structure of the catalyst
The 0.1 wt% loading of Co in catalyst 3L corresponds to a surface coverage of less than 2.5% of one monolayer. Since this catalyst is synthesized using a monomeric precursor (the CoIII(NH3)63+ ion) and substantial aggregation of Co on the surface is statistically unlikely at such low loadings, it can be reasonably postulated that sample 3L contains only monomeric Co. This hypothesis is supported by the X-band EPR spectrum for 3L, which is essentially identical to those collected by other researchers for systems containing isolated, high-spin Co2+ centers in tetrahedral environments.
All spectroscopic evidences suggest that catalyst 2L is structurally identical to catalyst 3L. Although self-condensation of Co(II) precursor species is possible both in solution and on the silica surface during the grafting process, the low concentration of these species again made substantial aggregation statistically unlikely.
The 2.1 wt% loading of Co in catalyst 3H corresponds to enough Co to produce a surface coverage of 49% of one monolayer, so it is possible for all of the cobalt in this catalyst to be present as isolated monomers. The close similarity of the X-band EPR spectra of catalysts 3L and 3H supports this conclusion. In addition, the EXAFS spectra of sample 3H show only weak higher shell scattering near 2.5 Å, consistent with the expectation that Co–O–Si structures should show weak scattering, but inconsistent with the presence of a large population of Co–O–Co structures. By comparison, sample 2H shows a strong Co–O–Co second-shell scattering at 2.6 Å and even some third-shell scattering at 3.6 Å. Sample 2H also exhibits a different EPR spectrum, lower catalytic activity per Co, and most simply, is brown rather than cobalt blue.
In addition to providing evidence for the presence of isolated Co(II), the EPR spectra also provide evidence against the presence of dimeric species in samples 3L, 2L, and 3H. For Co2+ dimers, the similar magnitudes of antiferromagnetic exchange, Zeeman splitting, and ion zero-field interaction give rise to rich, complex spectra very different from those observed here [63]. The presence of small clusters of Co3O4 can also be ruled out, as the tetrahedral Co2+ ions in this material give rise to an EPR signal near g = 2.25 not observed in Fig. 2. Consideration of the evidence strongly supports the conclusion that samples 3L, 2L, and 3H contain only tetrahedral, monomeric Co2+.
4.3. Catalytic mechanism
From the XANES and EXAFS data in Table 2, it is clear that single-site Co2+ on silica catalysts cannot be oxidized to Co3+ at 550 °C in air and cannot be reduced to Co0 at 550 °C in helium or hydrogen. Similar resistance to both oxidation and reduction has been observed for tetrahedral Co2+ isomorphically substituted into zeolite beta, though debate exists about the reducibility of cobalt in zeolite structures [64], [65]. Resistance to reduction has also been observed for Co-exchanged H-ZSM5 [19]. Given the observed resistance of Co toward reduction under reaction conditions, we propose that hydrogenation of propene and dehydrogenation of propane over single-site Co2+/SiO2 catalysts proceed via a non-redox mechanism. Non-redox mechanisms for (de-)hydrogenation have been proposed for Co-exchanged ZSM5 catalysts [18], as well as for related Zn2+ and Ga3+ catalysts [20], [21], [22], [23].
From pyridine adsorption studies, it is evident that the Co2+/SiO2 catalyst contains Lewis acid sites. Unlike Co-exchanged zeolites, however, the Co2+/SiO2 catalysts reported here do not contain any Brønsted acid sites. Thus, the mechanism for catalytic (de-)hydrogenation must involve Co2+ as a Lewis acid. By analogy with related Zn, Ga, and Cr catalysts, we postulate that (de-)hydrogenation involves heterolytic H–H and C–H activation across Co–O bonds.
In a previous study on Zn2+/SiO2 catalysts, we have shown that heterolytic C–H bond activation in propane on a [Zn–O] active site is the energetically most favorable pathway. Heterolytic C–H bond activation at a d10 metal center is well precedented and can be understood in Lewis acid–base terms, with Zn2+ acting as a Lewis acid. In contrast, Co2+ with a d7 electronic configuration has partially vacant d orbitals which may stabilize an alkyl radical and enable C–H activation via a homolytic route. Examples of homolytic C–H bond activation by homogeneous Co2+ catalysts can be readily found in the literature [17]. To understand the mechanism of C–H activation and dehydrogenation of propane on Co2+/SiO2 catalysts, density functional theory (DFT) calculations on representative cluster models have been performed. The complete mechanism of propane dehydrogenation to propene on the Co2+/SiO2 catalyst is proposed to involve heterolytic cleavage of a C–H bond Co–O to form a Co alkyl and surface hydroxyl –OH, followed by β-hydride elimination to evolve propene. The resulting cobalt hydride then reacts with the neighboring hydroxyl proton to generate hydrogen, which desorbs to regenerate the initial Co–O resting state. This mechanism is analogous to that previously reported on Zn2+/SiO2 and postulated in a number of other non-redox dehydrogenation mechanisms. A more detailed mechanistic analysis within density functional theory will be communicated in a subsequent publication.
The amorphous silica support is represented by using silsesquioxane-type cluster models that have been used before by us and other groups [37], [42], [66]. The XANES measurements suggest that cobalt in Co/SiO2 is in +2 oxidation state. The EXAFS data indicate the presence of four neighboring atoms surrounding the metal center in a tetrahedral arrangement. This structure remains unchanged upon exposure to both oxidizing and reducing gases and at elevated temperatures. Therefore, the catalyst active site has been modeled as four-coordinate Co2+ center in which the metal atom interacts with four surface oxygen atoms. Two of the metal–oxygen bonds are covalent (Co–O–Si), and remaining two are dative bonds (Co–OH–Si). The Co–O covalent bond distance is 1.85 Å while the Co–O(H) dative bond distance is 2.11 Å. The average bond distance of 1.98 Å computed at the DFT level is in an excellent agreement with the estimated bond length (1.98 Å) from the EXAFS data.
The transition state (TS) for the heterolytic C–H cleavage in propane leading to a metal-alkyl intermediate and a surface silanol group is shown in Fig. 11a. The alternative heterolytic mechanism, in which a metal hydride and an alkyl silyl ether are formed, not only has a higher activation barrier for C–H dissociation, but also, the overall process is more endothermic. To estimate the electronic charge and spin on the metal center in the free catalyst as well as in the activated complex, natural bond orbital (NBO) analysis was performed. The charge on cobalt in the free catalyst is +1.2e, consistent with the +2 oxidation state of the metal. The electron spin value of 2.8 corresponds to the three unpaired electrons in high-spin cobalt with the d7 configuration. The formation of the four-membered activated complex does not change the charge or spin density on the cobalt atom significantly, consistent with heterolytic C–H bond cleavage. The Co–C and O–H distances in the transition state structure are 2.15 Å and 1.25 Å, respectively, which are reduced to 1.98 Å and 0.98 Å, respectively in the resulting product (not shown here). The computed barrier for the heterolytic C–H bond activation is 37.6 kcal/mol. This is equal to within the accuracy of DFT to the heterolytic C–H bond activation energy (38.2 kcal/mol) determined previously for a silica-supported Zn2+ catalyst.
Download : Download high-res image (152KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Transition state structures representing (a) heterolytic and (b) homolytic activation of C–H bond in propane on Co/SiO2 catalyst active site. Color: Co (blue), O (red), Si (teal), C (gray), and H (white). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
The transition state for the homolytic C–H bond activation is shown in Fig. 11b. Attempts to locate an alternative TS structure in which a Co(III)–H intermediate and propyl radical are formed have failed at the DFT level. Instead, we have found that homolytic C–H cleavage involves the support oxygen covalently attached to the metal atom. The C–H and Co–O distances in the homolytic TS structure are 1.21 Å and 2.01 Å, respectively, which suggest that these two bonds are significantly activated. The Co–C distance of 3.72 Å virtually rules out any interaction between the metal center and the alkyl radical.
In the homolytic C–H bond activation pathway, the electronic charge and spin on the Co atom change significantly from the free catalyst to the activated complex. The number of unpaired electrons on Co in the TS is close to 4, as opposed to 2.8 in the free catalyst, which suggests that the electron transferred to the catalyst during C–H bond homolysis locates on the cobalt atom. This also makes the metal atom less positively charged, as confirmed via NBO analysis (+0.7e). The spin and charge analysis indicates that the Co atom in the transition state structure is essentially in the +1 oxidation state (d8). The remaining unpaired electron resulting from the homolytic C–H bond cleavage is located over the carbon and two oxygen atoms.
The activation barrier for the homolytic C–H bond activation in propane is 100 kcal/mol, significantly higher than the barrier calculated for the heterolytic pathway (37.6 kcal/mol), and comparable to the gas phase homolytic bond dissociation energies for C–H bonds in propane (CH3CH2CH3, 100.9 kcal/mol; CH3CH2CH3, 98.1 kcal/mol) [67]. The rate of C–H bond activation via radical mechanisms on the catalyst surface is therefore not likely to differ significantly from the rate of non-catalytic gas phase cracking. A similar result was observed in calculations on Zn/SiO2. An additional difference between the two pathways is observed for the selectivity in C–H bond activation in propane: for the heterolytic mechanism, the primary C–H bond (carbon 1) is lower in energy, whereas activation of a secondary C–H (carbon 2) bond is preferred in the homolytic mechanism. This difference is consistent with the observation that carbanion stability increases with decreasing substitution at carbon, whereas radical stability increases with increasing substitution. In summary, the catalytic selectivity and calculated reaction pathways are both consistent with heterolytic C–H activation rather than a one electron, homolytic pathway.
At 550 °C, the propane dehydrogenation turnover frequencies observed on Co/SiO2 catalysts are 2–3× greater than those observed on the previously investigated Zn/SiO2 catalysts. In comparing these rates, we note that in air- and moisture-free environments, zinc alkyls are stable species, as the lack of vacant d orbitals on the d10 Zn2+ ion leads to high barriers for β-hydride elimination. Previous theoretical analysis confirmed that for Zn/SiO2, this β-hydride elimination step is rate determining. The greater rate of reaction for Co/SiO2 can thus be attributed to the fact that the β-hydride elimination reaction is more facile on Co. Late transition metal alkyls [68], [69], such as those of Co [70], are known to be labile for β-hydride elimination. Although high-spin tetrahedral Co2+ lacks vacant d orbitals to enable β-hydride elimination, a recent theoretical study by Holland et al. [71] demonstrated that beta-hydride elimination of high-spin Fe(II) and Co(II) alkyls is accessible via a spin-crossover mechanism to generate a low-spin intermediate. A similar spin-crossover mechanism is postulated in the present system.
The microscopic reverse reaction, propene hydrogenation, necessarily proceeds by the same mechanism as propane dehydrogenation, but in the reverse order. At 200 °C, Zn/SiO2 catalyst exhibits stable activity for propene hydrogenation. By contrast, while Co/SiO2 treated with H2 at 200 °C is active initially for propene hydrogenation, activity decreases rapidly with extended exposure to propene. When propene is removed and Co/SiO2 treated with H2, the same initial activity and same deactivation trend are observed. By hypothesis, the Co–H(HO–Si) species generated by treatment with H2 is rapidly consumed by propene, and regeneration of this species is slow at 200 °C. At 550 °C, the barrier to heterolytic cleavage of H2 can be overcome and Co/SiO2 shows long-lived hydrogenation activity over several hours of testing. Computational results are also consistent with the formation of Co–H and SiOH species by heterolytic cleavage of H2 being endothermic, thus requiring the high temperatures to generate sufficient surface Co–H concentration for effective catalysis. In conclusion, the endothermicity of heterolytic cleavage step on Co/SiO2 results in it being an extremely poor hydrogenation catalyst at low temperatures, despite the exothermicity of the overall hydrogenation reaction. At the high temperatures required by thermodynamics for effective propane dehydrogenation, the barrier to heterolytic C–H bond cleavage is easily overcome, and thus, the Co/SiO2 shows good performance in propane dehydrogenation.
Of note, Co/SiO2 used for catalytic hydrogenation at high temperatures does not maintain its activity when cooled and tested at lower temperatures (e.g. 200 °C or room temperature). This is consistent with the proposed mechanism, but inconsistent with hydrogenation activity arising from the presence of reduced Co metal nanoparticles. The presence of such nanoparticles is also not supported by spectroscopic data (XANES and EPR) and is further inconsistent with the high selectivity observed for propene dehydrogenation at 650 °C, as Co metal nanoparticles would be expected to readily cleave C–C bonds.
5. Conclusion
Single-site, high-spin, tetrahedral Co2+ supported on silica can be conveniently prepared at any scale by grafting CoIII(NH3)6Cl3 from ammonium hydroxide solution. The resulting catalyst is active for dehydrogenation of propane above 550 °C and exhibits selectivity for dehydrogenation vs. C–C bond cracking reactions in excess of 95% even at 650 °C. The structure of the catalyst has been confirmed under reaction conditions by XANES and EXAFS, and ex situ by EPR and Raman spectroscopies. Isolated Co2+ on silica undergoes neither oxidation in air nor reduction in hydrogen or propane at 650 °C, but does exhibit Lewis basicity toward pyridine. Density functional theory calculations support the interpretation that propane dehydrogenation proceeds through a mechanism involving heterolytic C–H bond cleavage across a Co–Osupport bond, with no consequent change in the cobalt oxidation state. The microscopic reverse reaction, propene hydrogenation, can also be carried out on Co/SiO2 at high temperatures, but is inhibited at low temperatures by the endothermicity of heterolytically cleaving H2. There are relatively few other examples in the literature of heterolytic C–H bond activation by heterogeneous cobalt catalysts, though a number of recent studies [14], [72], [73], [74] have concluded that it is a viable mechanism for metal ions which are in non-zero-valent states. For example, it was proposed for chromium catalyzed dehydrogenation by the Weckhuysen and coworkers [75]. Recent work by the Coperét group studying the industrially important Phillips polymerization catalyst also concluded [74], [76], [77] that heterolytic cleavage was the key step in generating Cr alkyl that is the active polymerization catalyst. Low-coordinate main-group Lewis acids such as Al can stoichiometrically activate methane [72]. Finally, we found that heterolytic cleavage occurs readily with our single-site Zn/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [37]. For the single-site cobalt catalyst disclosed here, heterolytic cleavage of the propane C–H bond is the key step, which had also been demonstrated in other similar catalytic systems [14]. However, it is an open question whether redox-active metal catalysts will activate C–H bonds by oxidative addition and reductive elimination or heterolytic cleavage. This is especially likely for second- and third-row transition metals, which are more inclined to participate in two-electron redox chemistry and are well accepted to perform olefin hydrogenation via oxidative addition/insertion/reductive elimination mechanisms. Developing a greater understanding of the site requirements for heterolytic C–H bond activation opens new opportunities for catalyst design. In particular, the results presented here suggest that superior catalysts for selective C–H bond activation could be developed using non-redox single-site catalysts with lower barriers for both heterolytic cleavage and β-hydride elimination than C–C bond cleavage. Attempts to develop such catalysts in our laboratory are ongoing.
Acknowledgments
The work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Chemical Sciences under Contract DE-AC-02-06CH11357. BH and ASH would like to thank the Illinois Institute of Technology for a Starr-Fieldhouse Fellowship (BH) and startup funding support. Use of the Advanced Photon Source is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, and Office of Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract DE-AC02-06CH11357. Materials Research Collaborative Access Team (MRCAT, Sectors 10 BM and 10ID) operations are supported by the Department of Energy and the MRCAT member institutions. Density functional theory calculations were performed using the computational resources available at the Argonne National Laboratory Center for Nanoscale Materials (CNM) and the computing resources provided on “Fusion” and “Blues,” high-performance computing clusters operated by the Laboratory Computing Resource Center at Argonne National Laboratory.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
