I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


ZrO2-Based Alternatives to Conventional Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts: Active Sites, Design, and Performance
Graphical Abstract
The support is the catalyst: In a new approach to propane dehydrogenation catalysts, surface, coordinatively unsaturated, Zr cations in bulk ZrO2-based catalysts are the catalytically active sites. Their concentration can be tuned through doping ZrO2 with metal oxides inducing the formation of such structural defects or by depositing tiny amounts (up to 0.05wt%) of hydrogenation-active metals that promote ZrO2 reduction.
Abstract
Non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene is an established large-scale process that, however, faces challenges, particularly in catalyst development; these are the toxicity of chromium compounds, high cost of platinum, and catalyst durability. Herein, we describe the design of unconventional catalysts based on bulk materials with a certain defect structure, for example, ZrO2 promoted with other metal oxides. Comprehensive characterization supports the hypothesis that coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations are the active sites for propane dehydrogenation. Their concentration can be adjusted by varying the kind of ZrO2 promoter and/or supporting tiny amounts of hydrogenation-active metal. Accordingly designed Cu(0.05wt%)/ZrO2-La2O3 showed industrially relevant activity and durability over ca. 240h on stream in a series of 60dehydrogenation and oxidative regeneration cycles between 550 and 625C.
Propene, used in the chemical industry for the manufacture of polymers, solvents, dyes, resins, fibers, and drugs is mainly produced from crude oil. In view of finite petroleum reserves but growing demand for this olefin, vast reserves of shale gas consisting predominantly of methane and of lower amounts of ethane and propane1 could provide an economical alternative to crude oil.2One way to convert propane to propene is the non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH), which is a successful example of raw-material change in the chemical industry.3 Propene production via PDH in 2012 amounted to about 5million metric tons (mmt) from the total 80mmt production.3d The share is expected to grow because several PDH plants are under construction.4 Consequently, demand for PDH catalysts will also increase. Commercial catalysts with CrOx or PtSn species typically supported on Al2O33 are either toxic or have a limited availability of the active components. For several decades, researchers have attempted to design suitable alternatives based on supported V2O5, Ga2O3, or MoO3.3d Recently, Weckhuysen and co-workers5 developed an active Al2O3-supported catalyst consisting of two typical propane dehydrogenation components, that is, Pt and Ga2O3. The noble metal was assumed to participate directly in PDH through assisting in the recombination of hydrogen atoms thus helping the active Ga3+ sites to recover. In a long-term test over 150PDH/regeneration cycles, this catalyst, however, lost around 30% of its initial activity during the first twenty sequences and then operated at a stable level. Thus, the traditional concept of active sites in supported noble metals or transitional metal oxides has only resulted in limited progress in developing novel catalysts.
Herein, we elucidated and provide general fundamentals for designing alternative catalysts composed of unconventional PDH components, in which lattice defects of the support are the catalytically active sites. Our working hypothesis was that oxides of metals which usually have an unchangeable oxidation state but a high oxygen mobility can generate the required defects under PDH conditions. ZrO2 promoted with other metal oxides is a typical representative of such materials6 and has actually been used as a support for catalytically active Pt, CrOx, or GaOx species.3d However, the loading was too high to test the intrinsic support activity. Our mechanistic analysis led us to the conclusion that coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations (Zrcus, where cus=coordinatively unsaturated) are the active sites possessing PDH activity and selectivity comparable to those of an industrially relevant CrOx-containing catalyst. Thus, this study further supports the importance of coordinatively unsaturated cations in heterogeneous catalysis including alkane dehydrogenation.3d,7 We also established basic principles for tuning the concentration of such defect sites. Importantly, dispersed ZrOx species supported on SiO2 or Al2O3SiO2 are significantly less active than Zrcus on the surface of bulk ZrO2-based catalysts. The derived knowledge will aid in the optimization of such catalysts and motivate the exploration of other materials with high surface reducibility for PDH application.
We initially selected metal oxides differing in oxygen surface mobility,8 that is, SiO2, Al2O3, 10Si90AlOx (10wt% SiO2 in Al2O3), 40Si60AlOx (40wt% SiO2 in Al2O3), and LaZrOx (10wt% La2O3 in cubic ZrO2). To increase their reducibility, they were impregnated with pre-formed Pt, Rh, or Ru nanoparticles (NPs).9 The NPs were between 1.1 and 1.5nm diameter with a narrow size distribution (FigureS1 in the Supporting Information). The loading of Pt was set to 0.1wt%, while that of Rh or Ru was 0.05wt% to ensure similar surface area of each metal (ca. 0.2m2metal/gsupport calculated according to Ref.10). Figure1A presents the rate of propene formation over supported catalysts and pristine supports. To assure the metallic state of Pt, Rh, and Ru, the catalysts (as well as the pristine supports) were pre-treated in a flow of H2 at 550C before the reaction. The supports were significantly less active than the corresponding catalysts but their activity increased as the strength of the metaloxygen bond decreased. The catalysts based on SiO2Al2O3 with Rh or Ru NPs showed lower rates than their Pt-containing counterparts. The activity order, however, changed when the metals were supported on LaZrOx. Remarkably, pristine LaZrOx with the weakest metaloxygen bond gave an even higher rate than the catalysts with Ru or RhNPs on SiO2Al2O3 and slightly lower than Pt/SiO2Al2O3. To understand the origins of the high activity of LaZrOx-based materials, we tested additional catalysts with Ru content between 0.002 and 0.2wt%. The rate of propene formation (Figure1B) and propene selectivity (FigureS2) passed over a maximum on the catalysts with 0.05 and 0.005wt% Ru respectively.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
A)Propene formation rate (r(C3H6)) over pristine supports() and with supported Pt(), Rh(gray filled circles) or Ru(•) NPs. B)The rate and C)TOF as a function of Ru content in Ru/LaZrOx. Test conditions: 550C, C3H8:N2=40:60, weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) of 23.6h1.
Essentially, the apparent turnover frequency (TOF) of propene formation, that is, the activity related to one surface Ru atom, decreased with Ru loading (Figure1C). Since the catalysts had the same 1.1nm Ru NPs, any effects of the metalsupport interaction(s) and/or particle size on TOF are excluded. Therefore, Ru is not directly responsible for the high PDH activity of Ru/LaZrOx. Thus, we postulate that Zrcus, that is, zirconium cations located near anion vacancies, are catalytically active sites. We put forward that Ru NPs participate in the formation of adsorbed hydrogen species, which remove lattice oxygen from LaZrOx thus yielding Zrcus. This assumption is indirectly supported by the fact that the initial activity of oxidized catalysts was lower but increased with time on stream compared with their reduced counterparts (FigureS3).
The formation of anion vacancies (a direct indicator of Zrcus existence) in the lattice of LaZrOx after reduction in H2 at 550C was experimentally demonstrated by electron paramagnetic resonance (FigureS4). To quantify the concentration of anion vacancies, O2-pulse experiments with catalysts reduced at 550C were performed in the temporal analysis of products (TAP) reactor.11 Having a minimal pulse size of around 0.1nmol, this technique is perfectly suitable for such purposes. Based on the amount of O2 consumed (FigureS5), we calculated the concentration of anion vacancies assuming that one O2 molecule fills two vacancies. The corresponding values for LaZrOx without Ru and with 0.002, 0.005, or 0.05wt% Ru were 2.41016, 4.61016, 1.21018, and 1.01019 sites per gram. It cannot be completely excluded that bulk vacancies also participated in this process to some extent. Control experiments with Ru/40Si60AlOx which has the same Ru NPs but on a non-reducible support showed that gas-phase O2 was not consumed for oxidation of Ru to RuO2.
To further validate our hypothesis about the kind of PDH active sites, we measured the rate of propene formation over LaZrOx, Ru/LaZrOx, and Rh/LaZrOx at different reaction temperatures. The purpose was to check if apparent activation energy (Ea) of propene formation depends on the presence and the type of noble metal. In the first series of experiments, the catalysts were reduced at 575C before determining the rate between 525 and 575C. This experiment was important to exclude temperature effects on the concentration of Zrcus sites formed upon catalyst reduction. Figure2 shows that Ea determined from the Arrhenius plots was around 170kJmol1 for all catalysts and did not depend on the kind of noble metal and its concentration. This result strongly suggests that the catalysts have the same kind of PDH sites, which should be Zrcus but not Ru or Rh.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Apparent activation energy of propene formation over different catalysts. The catalysts were either pre-reduced at the corresponding (525, 550, and 575C) reaction temperature() or at 575C(•) before testing at this and lower temperatures.
Significantly higher Ea values were obtained in a second series of tests (Figure2), when the catalysts were reduced at the same temperature, at which the rate of propene formation was measured, that is, at 525, 550, and 575C. This is because Ea in the second series additionally includes the energy required for formation of Zrcus sites upon catalysts reduction. As seen in Figure2, the difference in Ea for a given catalyst between the two series of experiments depends on the catalyst composition. The largest difference of 80kJmol1 was determined for pristine LaZrOx and became lower when Ru or Rh NPs were present on this support because these metals catalyze the reduction of the support. Based on the results presented above and mechanistic studies on alkane dehydrogenation over CrOx-containing12 and GaOx-containing7d,13 catalysts, we postulate that Zrcus and neighboring lattice oxygen participate in the CH bond activation resulting in the formation of ZrcusC3H7 and OH surface species. After the elimination of the β-hydrogen, propene and hydrogen are formed. According to theoretical calculations,14 the excess electron density is mainly localized in the anion vacancy. Thus, Zr4+cus and not Zr3+cus should participate in propane activation. Furthermore, control experiments with ZrOx/SiO2 and ZrOx/SiAlOx revealed that the surface Zr4+cus of bulk LaZrOx are significantly more active than supported ZrOx species (FigureS6).
If the role of Rh or Ru is to promote the formation of Zrcus sites on the surface of LaZrOx, any other hydrogenation-active metal can also be used for this purpose. As a proof of concept, we prepared additional catalysts with Cu, Ni, or Co species supported on LaZrOx. Note that these metals have never been reported to be active in the PDH reaction. All these catalysts revealed up to five-times higher rate of propene formation than LaZrOx, with Cu(0.05wt%)/LaZrOx showing the highest rate among them (FigureS6). Importantly, the Cu(0.05wt%)/LaZrOx catalyst was only two-times less active than the Ru(0.05wt%)/LaZrOx catalyst. The difference between the catalysts with different supported metals should be due to the dissimilar ability of the metals to generate the surface hydrogen species required for LaZrOx reduction during H2 pre-treatment. The practical relevance of Cu(0.05wt%)/LaZrOx was demonstrated over approximately 240h on stream in a series of 60PDH/oxidative regeneration cycles at 550, 600, and 625C (Figure3). No reductive pre-treatment was performed because the catalyst can be reduced insitu. The conversion of propane at 550C and 600C initially increased and then decreased within each 30min DH cycle but continuously decreased at 625C.
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Space time yield (STY) of propene over Cu(0.05wt%)/LaZrOx(•) and Cr(19.6wt%)K(0.9wt.%)/Al2O3() in a series of 60PDH/regeneration cycles at 550, 600, and 625C with WHSV of 1.57, 6.26, and 9.42h1, respectively.
Figure3 shows the highest spacetime yield (STY) of propene obtained over Cu(0.05wt%)/LaZrOx and Cr(19.6wt%)K(0.9wt%)/Al2O39 in each cycle between 550C and 625C. It is clear that Cu(0.05 wt%)/LaZrOx give a similar or even superior STY than the industrially relevant reference material and did not significantly change its performance from cycle to cycle. It also showed propene selectivity above 90% (FigureS7). The main side products were light hydrocarbons and coke. The coke could be completely removed within only 5min by an air stream at the PDH temperature.
Finally, we demonstrate how the derived fundamental knowledge about the nature of active sites can be applied to tailor ZrO2-based catalysts without using supported metals. The concentration of anion vacancies and accordingly the number of Zrcus in ZrO2 can be increased through promoting with a metal of lower than Zr4+ oxidation state.6 Doping with other metals causing distortion in the ZrO2 lattice can also enhance the reducibility of ZrO2 and thus the concentration of Zrcus upon reductive treatment. Bearing this in mind, we prepared ZrO2 doped to various degrees with TiO2 (TiZrOx), CeO2 (CeZrOx), or Y2O3 (YZrOx) and tested them for their PDH activity. Figure4 shows that YZrOx, TiZrOx, and CeZrOx outperformed LaZrOx. Importantly, the rate of propene formation over YZrOx was very close to that over the most active Ru (0.05wt%)/LaZrOx catalyst. The results further support our conclusion about the PDH role of Zrcus thus demonstrating generality of our concept for designing novel catalysts. Our preliminary results revealed that such catalysts could even find their application for dehydrogenation of iso- or n-butanes to generate corresponding olefins or dienes, which are also important building blocks of the chemical industry.
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Propene formation rates over pristine supports() and over Ru (0.05wt%)/LaZrOx(•).
In this study, we revisited the fundamentals of catalyst design for the non-oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes to olefins. Compared to conventional supported PDH catalysts, alternative catalysts are bulk metal oxides with lattice defects on their surface functioning as active sites. The concept was verified for propane dehydrogenation over ZrO2-based catalysts, where Zrcus cations were identified to be the PDH active sites. Such sites can be created by promoting ZrO2 with metal oxides, which induce formation of structural anion vacancies or enhance ZrO2 reducibility. Their concentration can also be increased by depositing tiny amounts of hydrogenation-active metals catalyzing ZrO2 reduction insitu under dehydrogenation conditions or during reductive catalyst treatment.
Experimental Section
Nanoparticles (NPs) of Ru, Rh, and Pt were synthesized by a modified ethylene glycol method. Supported catalysts were prepared by adding dropwise NPs solution in ethanol to support suspensions in ethanol at room temperature. Further details on preparation of NPs, supports, catalysts and their characterization are provided in SectionA1 in the Supporting Information.
Catalytic tests were performed in an in-house developed setup consisting of 15continuous-flow fixed-bed reactors. The feed components and the reaction products were analyzed by an on-line gas chromatograph (Agilent 7890). A more detailed description of catalytic tests is provided in SectionA2 in the Supporting Information.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 