<DOCUMENT>
Highly dispersed atomic layer deposited CrOx on SiO2 catalyst with enhanced yield of propylene for CO2 –mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane
Highlights
•
CrOx was highly dispersed on SiO2 by atomic layer deposition (ALD) method.
•
ALD catalysts present higher acidity and reducibility compared to impregnation ones.
•
ALD catalysts have higher content of active polymeric Cr(VI) species.
•
ALD catalysts have up to 1.8 times higher rate and 15% higher propylene yield.
•
Deactivated ALD catalysts with higher coke content, show higher activities.
Abstract
The increasing worldwide demand for propylene and the necessity of CO2 mitigation attracted the attention of scientists to focus on CO2-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (CO2-ODHP). In this regard, CrOx/SiO2 catalyst is an important and conventional option. Herein, we studied the atomic layer deposition (ALD) of CrOx on silica to increase the propylene production by increasing the dispersion of the catalyst. For ALD synthesis of CrOx/SiO2 catalyst, Cr(acac)3 and synthetic air were used as metal precursor and oxidant. The catalysts were examined in the CO2-ODHP reaction and their characteristics were compared to their impregnation counterparts using UV–Vis DRS, Raman, XANES, HRTEM and STEM-EDS mapping, H2-TPR, NH3-TPD and TPO. The ALD catalysts have shown up to 2 times higher acidity and enhanced reducibility compared to the impregnation catalysts. The presence of mainly Cr(VI) with a pre-edge peak at 5.994 keV in both series of catalysts was confirmed by XANES. UV–Vis DRS and Raman spectroscopy revealed the higher contents of active polymeric Cr(VI) species in the ALD ones. The dark field HRTEM and STEM-EDS mapping represented higher dispersion of chromium oxide particles in ALD catalysts. In CO2-ODHP, the ALD catalysts showed up to 18 and 15% promotion in propane conversion and propylene yield.
Graphical abstract
Download : Download high-res image (276KB)
Download : Download full-size image
1. Introduction
Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane using the greenhouse gas of CO2 (CO2-ODHP) with a tandem target of reducing CO2 emissions and increasing the marketable propylene production, as a key feedstock of several petrochemical industries, has recently attracted the attention of heterogenous catalysis researchers [1,2]. The reaction proceeds either through oxidative pathway over redox-type transition metal oxides (for example chromium and vanadium oxides), or non-oxidative mechanism over non-redox main group metal oxides (for example gallium oxide) via direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) followed by reverse water-gas shift (RWGS). However, one cannot define an unambiguous boundary between the two pathways. In other words, each of these mechanisms can, to some extent, occur over both series of catalysts. CO2 as a mild oxidant, on the one hand, heals the produced oxygen vacancies while decreases the over-oxidation of propane and propylene to COx that is highly detrimental in exothermic conditions of the common O2-ODHP reaction. On the other hand, this CO2 promotes the direct dehydrogenation by shifting the equilibrium to the propylene side with consuming H2 in RWGS reaction and removing the produced coke through reverse Boudouard reaction [2], [3], [4].
As CO2 is a thermodynamically stable molecule, a high performance catalyst is required to fulfill both CO2 mitigation and propylene production purposes in each of the reported pathways. A variety of catalysts were reported for the CO2-ODHP reaction with various range for selectivity and conversion at different time on streams (TOS). Among them, chromium oxides dispersed typically over the mesoporous silica based supports, can be pointed as the most important active sites for CO2-ODHP reaction [4], [5], [6], [7]. Chromium oxide based active sites are also suggested to take part in both redox and non-redox mechanisms. It has been proposed that at the begining of the reaction the main state of chromium oxide belongs to Cr (VI) which plays either the role of the precusor for Cr(III) and Cr(II) species under the reaction conditions or the main active site to generate the Cr(VI, III) redox cycle [4,8].
In order to enhance the activity of the supported CrOx catalysts in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, research studies have shown the necessity of providing high dispersion of Cr species [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13]. The higher dispersion of CrOx species increases the number of medium acid sites and consequently promotes the catalytic activity [13].
In attempting to investigate the inherent nature of chromium oxide sites, research studies show that CrOx have several types including mostly the isolated Cr(VI), polymeric Cr(VI) and crystalline Cr(III) forms [8,[14], [15], [16]]. Currently, it is not clearly known that which type of Cr(VI) species are active sites in CO2-ODH. Some researchers have focused on increasing the number of isolated Cr(VI) species to change their behavior in CO2-ODHP reaction. Cheng et al. [17] reported the utilization of silicalite as support material instead of common high surface area SBA-15 to reach single site Cr(VI) which resulted in higher activity and longevity of the catalyst in CO2-ODH of ethane which might behave similarly in CO2-ODHP. Aiming the higher performance of chromium oxide in dehydrogenation of propane, Zhang et al. [8] have used the flowing air calcination method rather than traditional calcination in O2 deficit furnaces to increase the population of surface isolated Cr(VI) active sites and prevent the polymerization of them.
In contrast, Baek et al. [9], have reported the less activity of isolated chromium oxides in CO2-ODHP due to its decreased affinity toward reduction and participation in the reaction cycle while polymerized Cr(VI) species have shown greater performance due to their higher reducibility. By focusing on propane dehydrogenation only, He et al. [15] reported the less activity and selectivity of isolated Cr(VI) due to their lower reducibility. Their results show improved values of activity and selectivity for non-isolated Cr(VI) species. Wang et al. [14], used silicalite-1 support with the unique silanol nests which results in high dispersion to impregnate the chromium nitrate salt on it and form chromium oxide catalysts with both isolated and polymeric Cr(VI) species. They found more activity and less selectivity of polymeric Cr(VI) oxides than the isolated Cr(VI) oxides, and the stronger trends with the increase of the polymerization degree. Zhang et al. [16] reported the higher performance of Ce-promoted CrOx catalyst in propane dehydrogenation, due to the decreased number of inactive isolated Cr(VI).
Considering the above arguments on the type of Cr(VI)O species, one can find the strong emphasis on the dispersion of the chromium oxides, the degree of polymerization and prevention of the formation of less active CrOx crystals. The first choice in this regard, is to change the catalyst preparation method. This way, an easy, fast, inexpensive and common method for the synthesis of most catalysts including supported CrOx is incipient wetness impregnation. However, this method does not give a catalyst with enough control on size distribution and results in the serious aggregation of the active species and subsequently the formation of crystalline forms [8]. In this regard, we decided to concentrate on atomic layer deposition (ALD) method as one of the attractive alternative methods other than wet ones that recently has shown great results in catalysis. In the flat film applications, like semi-conductors, ALD is a well-established sequential method capable of depositing uniform and conformal surface layers with angstrom level thicknesses [18,19]. This method was, in the same way, found a highly efficient method for the production of supported catalysts with extremely high control on uniformity, composition, structure and support-active phase interactions [20], [21], [22], [23], [24], [25]. In the case of dehydrogenation reactions, ALD method was utilized for either deposition of the active site alone [23,26,27] or over-coating of the target site with layers of an effective metal oxide to increase the selectivity, activity or longevity of the catalyst [28], [29], [30]. For deposition of the active sites alone, Yang et al. in a recent research [23] showed the formation of isolated vanadium oxides over aluminum oxide in the first cycle of ALD in a commercial vacuum reactor while the poly-vanadate species were formed in the next cycles keeping the dose time of precursor at a fixed short period of 200 s. Feng et al. [31], have used the ALD method with a precursor dose time of 45 s for the deposition of vanadium oxide and the investigation of the activity of VOx isolated monomers and polyvanadates with various degrees of polymerization in oxidative dehydrogenation of cyclohexane.
Herein, we have synthesised the silica supported CrOx catalysts in a home-built atmospheric pressure ALD reactor and compared them with their impregnation synthesized counterparts in conversion and selectivity for dehydrogenation of propane with CO2. Our studies illustrated the higher activity of ALD catalysts with almost the same level of selectivity of propylene in CO2-ODHP reaction. The results of characterizations reveal that the ALD catalysts developed higher extent of active polymeric Cr(VI) species and higher dispersion of CrOx particles.
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalyst synthesis by atomic layer deposition (ALD) method
First, the density of surface –OH groups on silica gel (Sigma-Aldrich, Davisil ™, 150 Å, 99+%) was measured by the Grignard reaction. Details of the Grignard procedure and experimental setup is reported in the S1. section of Supplementary Information.
Then, the ALD of CrOx on silica was performed in a home-built vertical reactor comprising of two heating zones (See Fig. S2). Chromium(III) 2,4-pentanedionate, Cr(acac)3 (Merck, 99.99%) was used as the chromium precursor and synthetic air (N2:O2 of 80:20, Purity: 99.9%) as the oxidant. Ar (Purity: 99.999%) at a flow rate of 110 sccm was used as the carrier gas. The main ALD steps are similar to what was reported by Taheri Najafabadi et al. [20] and include: (1) degassing the silica support placed in the ALD reactor zone in Ar at 200 °C for 1 h prior the reaction, to remove air and weakly adsorbed H2O, (2) reactive chemisorption of Cr(acac)3, sublimed at 170 °C, on the silica support at various temperatures including 170–270 °C under 110 sccm Ar flow (3) purging the reactor with Ar at 200 °C for 60 min (4) oxidizing the remaining acac ligands of Cr by flowing synthetic air and finally (5) purging with Ar to remove the remaining gas-phase reactants and by-products. During all steps, the effluent gas was passed through a gas cell in an FTIR spectrometer for analysis of the gaseous products. The schematic illustration of the reactive chemisorption step of ALD reaction is shown in Fig. 1.
Download : Download high-res image (219KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Schematic flow diagram of the first step of reactive chemisorption of Cr(acac)3 on silica in atomic layer deposition process.
Different CrOx loadings on silica were obtained by changing the Cr(acac)3 dose time in the reactive chemisorption step. The samples were denoted based on the CrOx deposition method and Cr weight percentage measured by ICP, for example ALD-Cr 0.72% for ALD synthesized catalyst sample with 0.72 wt % of Cr on silica.
2.2. Catalyst synthesis by impregnation method
For the synthesis of catalysts with the conventional incipient wetness impregnation method, proper amount of the nitrate precursor, Cr(NO3)3·9H2O (Merck, for analysis EMSURE), was dissolved in distilled water with a volume equal to the pore volume of the silica support. Then, the solution was added in a dropwise manner to the silica powder. The powder was then dried in an oven at 80 °C for 12 h. The calcination was carried out at 600 °C in the flowing synthetic air, as for the ALD catalysts. The impregnated catalysts are denoted as Imp-Cr X% where X represent the Cr loading determined by ICP.
2.3. Catalysts characterizations
The Cr loading was measured by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) method using a VISTA-PRO instrument (Varian Inc.).
Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), differential thermal analysis (DTA) and differential thermal gravimetric (DTG) analysis of ALD precursor was performed from room temperature to 600 °C with a heating rate of 10 °C.min−1 under flowing N2 using a Universal TA instrument (SDT Q600 V20.9). Prior to the measurement, the sample was degassed at 120 °C for 2 h followed by cooling down to room temperature.
X-Ray powder diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected on a PANalytical X'pert pro diffractometer with a Co Kα X-ray source. Samples were measured with a step size of 0.02 °.s−1 in the 2θ range of 5–80 using 40 kV and 40 mA X-ray source.
High resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM), High-angle annular dark-field (HAADF)-STEM imaging and its corresponding energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) data were taken on a FEI- G2 Tecnai HRTEM instrument at 200 kV. Samples were prepared by dispersing the dry powder in ethanol and placing a drop of the suspension on a carbon-coated Cu TEM grid. Thed-spacing value was calculated using Digital Micrograph package of Gatan Microscopy Suite by firstly applying Fourier transform (FFT), then masking the target spot and finally using the inverse FFT (IFFT).
FTIR of Cr-species on silica was performed on a PerkinElmer Spectrum RX I FT-IR spectrometer. All the samples were diluted with high purity KBr and the resulting mixture was palletized under 15 bar pressure for about 5 min. The analysis was carried out at a resolution of 2 cm−1. The spectra were normalized and deconvoluted to provide more information through comparison of the spectra of different catalysts.
UV–Vis diffuse reflectance spectra (UV–Vis DRS) were measured on a Specord 210 Plus Analytik Jena UV–Vis spectrometer equipped with an integrating barium sulfate sphere, a deuterium arc lamp as the UV light source and a halogen lamp as a visible radiation source. Spectra were collected at room temperature in the range of 200–1100 nm with a resolution of 4 nm and counting rate of 50 nm.s−1.
Raman spectra of samples were collected with a high energy Raman laser of 457 nm on a UniDRON, Confocal microscope Raman/PL spectroscopy system.
NH3 chemisorption on the catalysts was studied by temperature programmed desorption (TPD) methods in a U-shape quartz reactor on a Quantachrome ChemBET-3000 equipment. The as-synthesized catalyst was activated under flowing synthetic air at 600 °C, flushed with He and then cooled down to 100 °C under flowing He. Then, pure NH3 was passed through the catalyst bed for 15 min, followed by purging with He for 1 h. Subsequently, NH3-TPD was performed using 10 sccm of He as carrier gas, while the catalyst sample was heated with a rate of 10 °C.min−1 from 100 to 600 °C. The NH3 desorption products in the effluent gas were detected on a thermal conductivity detector (TCD).
Temperature programmed reduction (TPR) analyses were carried out on a Quantachrome ChemBET-3000 equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) using 7% H2 in Ar with a heating rate of 10 °C.min−1. The instrument was calibrated with Ag2O (Merck, for analysis 99+ EMSURE) for quantitative measurements of H2 consumption. In all tests, 50 mg of the as-prepared catalyst was activated similar to the NH3-TPD, purged with N2 and cooled down to RT under flowing N2. Then, the TPR analysis was performed over the temperature range of RT to 950 °C.
The X-ray Absorption Near Edge Spectra (XANES) were collected at Cr K-edge (5.98 keV) on a Johann-type Laboratory-Scale XANES Set-ups [32]. Fig. S3 shows a schematic illustration of the set-up. The X-ray source was a 1.5 kW fine focus X-ray diffraction glass tube with an Ag anode. The monochromator was a spherically bent Si(333) crystal analyser with a bending radius of 0.5 m and surface diameter of 100 mm [33]. Based on the required amount of Cr for the optimum XAS characterization, a mixture of catalyst and starch was made to provide an appropriate robust pellet. Cr2O3 and CrO3 were used as standard compounds to assess the presence of Cr(III) and Cr(VI) in the catalyst samples. The data was recorded in transmission mode and the resulting transmission intensities were used in the Beer-Lambert law to measure the absorption coefficient (Eq. (1)) [32].
(1)
Where I, I0 were measured in the presence and absence of the sample, and ybg and y0,bg are the linear fits to their background signals respectively,
is the thickness of the sample, and
the absorption coefficient that represents the XANES spectrum. A linear pre-edge background was subtracted from the measured XANES spectra and they were normalized to an equal area within the measured energy interval.
Textural parameters including specific surface area, pore size distribution, and pore volume were determined from adsorption-desorption isotherm measured with liquid nitrogen in vacuum on a Belsorp Mini II instrument. Prior to the measurements, all the samples were degassed at 300 °C and in vacuum for 3 h.
2.4. Catalytic reactivity measurement
The CO2-ODHP reaction was carried out at atmospheric pressure using a down-flow fixed-bed quartz micro-reactor, (Fig. S4) in the middle of which 400 mg of a catalyst was placed. The reaction temperature was measured with a K-type thermocouple located inside the catalyst bed and controlled by a PID temperature controller. The 30 sccm gas flow, composed of propane, CO2 and Ar with molar ratios of 1:5:14 respectively, was fed to the reactor. Inlet gas flow rates were controlled using three calibrated mass flow controllers (UNIT instruments LTD). Blank tests for bare silica were conducted under similar reaction conditions.
The reactants and products were analysed with an on-line Varian CP 3800 gas chromatograph equipped with two capillary columns in series for separation of hydrocarbons (CP-Sil 5CB 1.5, 30 m length, 0.530 mm I.D. and Al2O3/KCl, 50 m length, 0.530 mm I.D. respectively) in parallel with two different packed columns for separation of CO2 (HayeSep C 6 ft * 1/8 in., mesh 80/100) and CO (Molecular Sieve 13 × 3 ft * 1/8 in., mesh 80/100). The gas chromatograph consisted of two 0.250 ml sample loops, a 10-way valve and two 6-way valves supported by VICI Valco actuators. FID at 210 °C and methanizer at 410 °C were used for proper detection of hydrocarbons and carbon oxides (CO and CO2). Fig. S5 shows one of many chromatograms of the reaction products and Tables S1–S4 provides the information of GC gas pressure and flow rate, valve switching, and oven temperature program.
Propane conversion (X), was calculated using Eq. (2) [8]:
(2)
Propylene selectivity (S) was calculated as follow (Eq. (3)) [8]. It is worth noting that, in addition to the methane, ethylene and trace amounts of ethane there was not any other detectable hydrocarbons in any experiments. In addition, the carbon balance was ranging from 95 to 100%.
(3)
Then, in accordance with literatures [5,13,34] the reaction rates were normalized by dividing moles of propane converted per second to the total moles of Cr loading of each catalyst, and reported as specific reaction rate (s−1).
Download : Download high-res image (502KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Hacac FTIR peak intensity at 1625 cm−1 measured as a function of Cr(acac)3 dose time during the reactive chemisorption step. Inset: FTIR spectra of outlet gas at dose time of 120 min for various support temperatures.
2.5. Deactivation of catalysts
For the study of deactivation causes, we first measured the relative deactivation rate (%) from the catalyst performance TOS data by using Eq. (4):
(4)
where X5 and X100 are the propane conversion at TOS of 5 and 100 min respectively.
Then, we exposed the catalysts to the reaction feed with a TOS of 6 h, followed by cooling to room temperature under flowing Ar. These spent catalysts were studied in ex situ XANES, H2-TPR and temperature programmed oxidation (TPO). For the TPO analysis, the deposited coke was investigated by continuous analysis of the evolved CO and CO2 in a flow of synthetic air (20% O2 in N2). To this end, 50 mg of spent catalyst was degassed at 200 °C for 1 h under flowing Ar. Then, the catalyst was cooled down to room temperature and the TPO experiment was implemented with a heating rate of 10 °C.min−1 under 50 sccm of synthetic air and the effluent gas was analysed with an on-line FTIR. The details for the calculations of COx rate of formation and the weight percentage of coke are reported in S4. section of the Supplementary Information.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Atomic layer deposition of CrOx on silica
Aiming at the self-limited atomic layer deposition of chromium oxide on silica, a temperature range called ALD-window, wherein the Cr(acac)3 precursor neither decomposes nor condenses, but reacts with silica surface hydroxyl groups called reactive chemisorption, was searched for. First, thermal behavior of the precursor was investigated with TGA-DTG and DTA analyses; See Fig. S6 (a, b). The TGA-DTG curves indicate that Cr(acac)3 almost completely vaporizes from about 170 °C to 305 °C, with a DTG peak centered at 284 °C, leaving only a minor amount of residue of less than 3 wt.%. The DTA curve indicates two endothermic peaks at 218 °C and 293 °C. The former peak is attributed to the simultaneous sublimation and melting of Cr(acac)3. The next one, centered at 293 °C, originates from more vaporization, decomposition and reorganization of the remaining part of the precursor [35].
Then, the reaction of Cr(acac)3 on SiO2 surface was studied at different temperatures. During the Cr(acac)3 reactive chemisorption step on silica surface -OH groups, Hacac was formed, concentration of which varied with Cr(acac)3 dose sime (Fig. 2). Inset of Fig. 2 shows the FTIR spectra of gasses evolved from the ALD reactor at 120 min reactive chemisorption on silica at various temperatures. The Hacac peak intensity at 1625 cm−1 rises with temperature in the range of 170–200 °C, remains constant at 200 °C-230 °C, and again increases at 230–270 °C, at which additional peaks at 1740, 1760–1830 cm−1 for acetone, acetic acid and formic acid (See Fig. S7 for their spectra) appear and their intensity increases with temperature. At higher substrate temperatures methane, CO and CO2 were also detected, not reported here.
As shown in Fig. 2, Hacac evolution showed a time delay at the begining of the reactive chemisorption stage of ALD. Researchers who study ALD on flat films, reported such a time delay and called “incubation time/effect”. They showed that nucleation, which is highly complex, is the main cause of the time lag. This phenomenon occurs at the initial cycles and depends on different paramerters including substrate functional groups, precursor properties and substrate temperature [19,[36], [37], [38], [39]]. In ALD on porous supports for the synthesis of catalysts, recently such delay time was also reported for the initial stage of the reactive chemisorption step [40]. In present study, we evidenced the appearance of acetone and water as transient initial stage products during the incubation time with weak FTIR peak intensities, not shown in Fig. 2. As reported by Zhuravlev [41], amorphous silica is energetically heterogeneous support, regarding its surface functional groups. The uneven distribution and concentration of the different types of silanol and siloxane groups, including internal, isolated, geminal and vicinal silanols and siloxane bridges, result in a variety of reactivities toward external agents like ALD precursors, as reported by Hu and Turner [42]. So, a few number of surface sites are capable of readily interacting with adsorbed precursor and initiate decomposition of the ligand, but then quickly deplete as the exposure of precursor proceeds. The lower temperature a substrate has, the higher incubation time it shows, in consistency with what has been reported by other researchers [38,43].
The slowly decreasing Hacac peak intensity with Cr(acac)3 dose time in Fig. 2, after a maximum, to about 1400 min for ALD at 230 °C implies the self-limiting reaction of Cr(acac)3 with silica –OH groups. Detection of other hydrocarbon molecules at temperatures higher than 230 °C is the result of the activated dissociation and partial decomposition of the acac ligands [44], [45], [46] bounded to the surface via Cr centers, rather than re-adsorption and reaction of the Hacac with the support. The Hacac vapor was passed through the bare silica at different support temperatures and the outlet gas was monitored by FTIR. The resulting spectra did not show any sign of decomposition of Hacac. Therefore, it was concluded that Hacac does not dissociate on silica surface groups, as reported by others [43,47] too. Therefore, the temperature range of 200–230 °C considered as a proper ALD window for reactive chemisorption, in contrast to either condensation at temperatures lower than 190 °C or decomposition at temperatures higher than 230 °C. It is necessary to note that the analysis of the outlet gas with GC/MS (See Fig. S8) also has shown that Hacac (m/z = 100, 85, 72, 58, 43 amu) is practically the only product of the reactive chemisorption of Cr(acac)3 in the first half-cycle of ALD reaction after the incubation time. The lower limit of the temperature window, i.e. 200 °C, was chosen for the reactive chemisorption of Cr(acac)3 on silica for all catalysts preparation.
After purging the ALD reactor with Ar, as the third step of ALD, synthetic air was used for the oxidation of remaining ligands of the chemisorbed Cr(acac)x. As presented in Fig. 3, different carbonaceous components including acetone, acetic acid, methane, CO and CO2 released during the ligands oxidation step. Removal of the acac ligands most likely took place through combustion reactions with a complex reaction mechanism related to the activation of O2 molecules, insertion of O* into hydrocarbon chain of the ligands which might have been adsorbed with various configurations, CC bond cleavage, various desorption modes of different dissociated hydrocarbon products, and deep oxidation of the hydrocarbon fractions [39,44].
Download : Download high-res image (537KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. FTIR spectrum of oxidation of effluent gas from Cr(acac)x on silica formed during the first step in ALD cycle, at 5 min time on stream in the synthetic air.
Fig. 4 shows the Cr loading measured by ICP-OES as a function of reactive chemisorption dose time. Considering the density of surface –OH groups of silica support measured by Grignard method, 4.73 OH.nm−2, the surface coverage of Cr species was also calculated and presented in Fig. 4. Assuming a monolayer coverage in the first ALD cycle by complete consumption of surface –OH groups [48] or using the theoretical value of monolayer coverage of Cr, 1.61 Cr.nm−2 [49], the results lead us to less than 12% monolayer coverage of silica by chromium oxide species. The sub-monolayer coverage stems probably from the lateral steric hindrance of organic ligands bound to the deposited Cr species and partial passivation and blocking of the surface groups by reaction products, i.e. adsorption of Hacac molecules on surface –OH groups [40,46,47]. However, additional evidences are needed to support this speculation.
Download : Download high-res image (256KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Chromium loading measured by ICP-OES and number of Cr per nm2 of silica (left axes) and Cr molar surface coverage per number of moles of –OH groups on silica surface (right axis) as a function of Cr(acac)3 dose time during the reactive chemisorption step in the first half ALD cycle at 200 °C.
3.2. Textural and structural characterization
Textural analyses by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms and the resulting pore-size distributions of catalysts presented in Fig. 5 (a, b). Results show the type IV isotherm and type H2 hysteresis which are associated with capillary condensation and desorption in open ended mesoporous structures of silica. Due to minor CrOx loadings of both ALD and impregnated catalysts, all the samples showed similar behavior with the same surface area and average pore size values in the range of 243–259 m2.g−1 and 2.7 nm respectively.
Download : Download high-res image (467KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. (a) N2-adsoprtion-desorption isotherms and (b) pore-size distribution curve for ALD and impregnation catalysts.
The study of crystalline structure of CrOx/SiO2 catalysts, by X-ray diffraction (XRD) method, only shows a single broad and strong peak of the silica support in the range of 2θ = 15–35 ° without any obvious diffraction peak of CrOx species even for the sample with the highest chromium loading, before and after the CO2-ODHP reaction (See Fig. S9). This result, comes from the low content of chromium oxide and the small size of any possible crystals [11,50]. The FTIR spectra of catalysts was measured and represented in Figs. S10, 11. Bands at 1000 and 1250 cm−1 and a band at 750 cm−1 are related to vibrational motion of Si-O bonds and vibrations of Si next to bridging oxygen. Cr(VI)-O bond creates a weak band at 900 cm−1 which becomes larger by increasing the Cr loading as reported by Baek et al. [9].
The X-ray Absorption Near Edge Structure (XANES) for the K-edge of Cr was applied to study the oxidation state of Cr species and the dominant Cr form in each sample. Reference spectra were also collected from Cr2O3 and CrO3 powder (See Figs. 6 and S12). The CrO3 spectrum shows a pre-edge peak at 5.994 keV that is the characteristic of Cr(VI) in a nearly perfect tetrahedral symmetry in lack of an inversion center. This peak is assigned to the dipole allowed electron transition from the Cr 1 s orbital to an empty antibonding molecular orbital of Cr 3d in a tetrahedral field. In contrast, for the Cr2O3 reference, regarding the symmetry of Cr(III) in the octahedral coordination and the presence of an inversion center, the 1s→3d transition is more difficult and therefore the pre-edge peak disappears. The edge position is another difference between these reference materials which is red-shifted with decreasing the oxidation state from Cr(VI) to Cr(III) and increasing the symmetry of the Cr center [51], [52], [53]. The results of the XANES study of the catalysts show the presence of mix-valence of Cr in both series of samples where Cr(VI) is the dominating oxidation state.
Download : Download high-res image (296KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. XANES spectra of reference model materials, as-synthesized ALD and impregnation catalysts with a Cr loading of 0.72 wt% recorded on Lab-Scale XANES instrument. XANES spectra of other catalysts can be found in Fig. S12.
UV–Vis diffuse reflectance spectra (UV–Vis DRS) were measured to assess the electronic structure, and distinguish different types of Cr oxides. As represented in Fig. 7 (a, b), all the samples indicate overlapping peaks from 200 to 1000 nm for ligand-to-metal charge transfer (LMCT) of different CrOx species. As deconvoluted with Gaussian function, the two first peaks in the range of around 200–318 nm and 318–424 nm are the characteristics of charge transfer in the monomeric Cr6+ oxides with a tetrahedral symmetry. The third peak around 424–535 nm represents the distortion of the isolated Cr6+ oxides as a result of polymerization. The next peak around 535–700 nm was assigned to the tiny octahedral Cr2O3 crystals. The last peak around 700–1000 nm is reported as an indicative of Cr2O5 in quare pyramidal or distorted tetrahedral crystals (See Table S5) [8,11,14,[54], [55], [56]].
Download : Download high-res image (645KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. (a, b) UV–Vis DRS spectra with their deconvolutions for ALD and impregnation catalysts in absorption mode. (c) Comparing the peak area of polychromates of ALD and impregnation catalysts in each Cr loading.
From Fig. 7 (a, b), we realize that the ALD and impregnation samples of this work have a combination of Cr6+ in the form of mono/poly chromates and CrOx surface crystals. By deconvolution of the spectra, as shown in Fig. 7(c), we find that the polychromate species have higher density in ALD catalysts compared to impregnation ones.
Raman spectra of ALD and impregnation catalysts were presented in Figs. 8 and S13, 14. In Raman spectrum of CrOx/SiO2 catalysts, di-oxo (O=)2Cr(-O-Si)2 and mono-oxo OCr(-O-Si)4 show bands at 980 and 1000 cm−1 [9]. The dominant form of chromium oxide in both series of catalysts is the di-oxo chromate not mono-oxo chromate. Further, ALD catalysts, in opposite to their impregnation counterparts, have shown a distinct band around 270 cm−1, assigned to polymerized Cr(VI)Ox [14]. Additionally, Si-O-Si asymmetric stretch, Si-O-Si symmetrical stretching, network bending modes and longitudinal-optical silica network show peaks in 1065, 800, 390, and 1150 respectively [14,57].
Download : Download high-res image (260KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Raman spectra of ALD and impregnation synthesized catalysts with Cr loading of 0.72 wt%. The laser wavelength of Raman microscope was 457 nm.
Then, we studied the samples with HRTEM/STEM-HAADF and their EDS mapping. Fig. 9, Fig. 10, respectively show the images of ALD and impregnation catalysts with Cr loading of 0.72 wt%. As shown in Fig. 9 (a, b, e, f), the ALD-synthesized catalyst is made of small and highly dispersed chromium oxide particles. Ideally the ALD method results in a conformal and uniform layer-by-layer deposition. However, in the initial cycles of most growth modes of ALD, instead of a uniform layer, dispersed ultra-small 2D clusters of surface species are formed. In the oxidation step and the subsequent heat treatment of the catalyst, the sintering of the surface clusters and the creation of 3D amorphous particles, but still small and highly dispersed particles, occur [58], [59], [60]. As represented in Fig. 7(c), the UV–Vis DRS show the higher content of poly-chromates in the ALD catalysts with the higher degrees of polymerization compared to their corresponding dry impregnation catalysts. Therefore, the resulting ALD synthesized highly dispersed small CrOx particles, as reported in literature [8,14], are mainly made of poly-chromates with different degrees of polymerization. Beside these highly dispersed amorphous surface CrOx particles, the formation of isolated mono-chromate species and the weak crystalline layers of chromium oxide is also confirmed by UV–Vis DRS, HRTEM images (Figs. 7(a) and 9 (c, d)).
Download : Download high-res image (2MB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. ALD catalyst with Cr loading of 0.72 wt%. (a, b) High resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images of CrOx particles and (c, d) crystalline structure of chromium oxide. Red circles highlight few of the many CrOx particles. (e, f) Scanning transmission electron microscopy image in high angle annular dark field mode (STEM-HAADF) with the corresponding energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy elemental mapping images of Cr. Insets in (c) and (d) represents the IFFT profile of the observed lattice fringes for the d-spacing calculations.
Download : Download high-res image (2MB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Impregnation catalyst with Cr loading of 0.72 wt%. (a, b) High resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images of CrOx particles and (c, d) crystalline structure of chromium oxide. (e, f) Scanning transmission electron microscopy image in high angle annular dark field mode (STEM-HAADF) with the corresponding energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy elemental mapping images of Cr. Inset in (c) represents the IFFT profile of the observed lattice fringes for the d-spacing calculations.
In contrast, as can be seen in Fig. 10, the dry impregnation method has produced mostly large particles of the chromium oxide. In this synthesis method, based on the literature [61,62], the drying and calcination procedure, decompose the chromium nitrate hydrate to O2, N2O and NO2 and cause the severe redistribution and sintering of chromium oxides. This way, relatively higher population of the large crystalline particles of chromium oxide are formed (See Fig. 10c, d). However, as represented in the UV–Vis DRS (Fig. 7(b) of the manuscript), the formation of smaller amorphous poly-chromates and the mono-chromate species, cannot be excluded.
The crystalline structure of ALD and impregnation catalysts (See Figs. 9 (c, d) and 10 (c, d)) has interplanar spacings of 0.35 and 0.27 nm. These lattice spaces are in match with orthorhombic CrO3 reported in X'Pert HighScore Reference Patterns numbers of 01–073–1547, 00–007–0228 and 00–001–0622.
Temperature programmed reduction (TPR) was examined to study the reducibility of the catalysts. Fig. 11 (a, b) shows the H2 consumption as a function of temperature for ALD and impregnation catalysts. The H2-TPR of CrOx/SiO2 catalysts exhibits a major peak around 450 °C, minor broad peaks around 250 °C, and 700 °C and a shoulder around 350 °C. The peaks were assigned to reduction of Cr6+ with different sizes to Cr3+ for peaks below 600 °C and Cr3+ to Cr2+ for the region higher than 600 °C [11,34,63,64]. As shown in Fig. 11(c), the ALD samples show a higher degree of reducibility with higher TPR peak area at temperatures lower than 600 °C, compared to the analogous impregnation samples. Going over several publications, we found some controversies in the assignment of H2-TPR peaks. Some researchers believe that the isolated chromium oxide species are highly inactive and have a reduction peak at very high temperatures, while polymeric CrOx species show about 200 °C lower temperature peak [16]. Some others assign the major peak in H2-TPR to the monochromate in the form of isolated mono-oxo and di-oxo chromium oxides [65]. Another group shows the absence of any mono-oxo chromium oxide over the silica support. they refer some of the overlapping H2-TPR peaks to the formation of polychromate species in presence of H2O during the TPR reaction [57].
Download : Download high-res image (421KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. H2-TPR of as-synthesized (a) ALD and (b) Impregnation CrOx/SiO2 catalysts, at a heating rate of 10 °C.min−1 under 8 sccm of 7% H2 in Ar. (c) Total H2 consumption of ALD and impregnation catalysts as a function of Cr loading.
Considering the UV–Vis DRS and Raman results, we may agree with the last group in considering the water catalysed formation of polychromate during the H2-TPR reaction and reduction of these newly formed species in parallel to the isolated species. Therefore, the main outcome of these H2-TPR data is the uncovering of more reducibility of ALD catalysts compared to their analogous impregnation counterpart.
NH3 was selected as an appropriate probe molecule to study both the dispersion and the acid properties of catalysts in the TPD method (Fig. 12a, b). As shown, the total area of NH3-desorption peaks intensifies with the increasing of chromium loading. The ALD catalysts have up to 2 times higher amounts of NH3-desorption indicating the higher dispersion of Cr oxides, compared to the impregnated catalysts. NH3-TPD of all the samples shows broad peaks in the range of 120–600 °C, resulting from the overlapping of weak (α peak), medium (β peak) and strong (γ peak) acidic sites, in line with what was reported in literature [12,66]. These peaks were separated by mathematical deconvolution method using Gaussian function and the results were shown in Fig. 12c. This figure shows that, for all catalysts, the amount of medium acid sites is greater than the weak and strong acid sites. About the relation of NH3-desoprtion and catalytic activity, literatures show that the medium acid sites (β peaks) are responsible for the conversion of propane in CO2-ODHP [13]. Fig. 12c shows that the ALD catalysts have higher β-peak which results in their higher activity in the catalytic performance tests. The last peak that appeared for the samples with 0.34 wt.% of Cr, which is not used in the bar charts of Fig. 12c, may originate from the dehydroxylation of the support around the calcination temperature as reported by Matveyeva et al. [67].
Download : Download high-res image (787KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. NH3-TPD of (a) ALD and (b) impregnation catalysts with different Cr loadings. (c) The α, β, γ peak area values for each kind of acid sites as a function of Cr loading for ALD and impregnation catalysts.
3.3. Catalytic activity
Fig. 13 (a, b and c-f) illustrates the time on stream (TOS) propane conversion, specific reaction rate and selectivity of respectively propylene, methane, ethane and ethylene for the ALD and impregnation catalysts. The change in the number of moles of the products with TOS are represented in Fig. S.0.15. The ALD catalysts exhibited up to 18%, 15% and 1.8 times higher conversion, yield of propylene and specific reaction rates, respectively, in comparison to the impregnation ones. In both series of catalysts, the conversion values were increased with Cr-loadings. According to the previous observations [7,66,[68], [69], [70]] it is generally suggested that CO2-ODHP reaction over chromium oxide catalysts occurs through two different redox and non-redox pathways. In the redox pathway, CO2 directly participate in the reaction mechanism through Eq. (5):
(5)
C2H8+CO2⇄C3H6+CO+H2O
In which the lattice oxygen of chromium oxide takes part in the reaction and the CO2 re-oxidizes the reduced chromium species in the Mars van Krevelen (MvK) mechanism (Eqs. (6), (7)) [9]:
(6)
C3H8+CrOx→C3H3+CrOx-1 + H2O
(7)
CO2+CrOx-1→CO+CrOx
Download : Download high-res image (1MB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. (a) Conversion of propane, (b) specific reaction rate and (c, d, e, f) selectivity of propylene, methane, ethane and ethylene respectively for dehydrogenation of propane in presence of CO2 as a function of time on stream (TOS). Inset in (a): the propane conversion as a function of Cr loading at 100 ± 5 min TOS for ALD and Impregnation catalysts. Reaction conditions: T = 600 °C, total flow rate = 30 sccm, C3H8 = 1.5 sccm, CO2:C3H8 = 5:1.
Regarding the role of CrOx in this redox reaction, there are mainly two different speculations. Some researchers believe that Cr6+ and Cr3+ are the main redox couples. Some others have shown that Cr3+/Cr2+ redox species take part in the dehydrogenation. In this regard, it seems that at the beginning of the reaction, reduction of Cr6+ to Cr3+ is prominent and after a while the reduction of Cr3+ to Cr2+, which are formed from Cr6+, becomes more relevant [7,34,51].
In the non-redox pathway, propane is directly dehydrogenated over CrOx-1 and CO2 removes the produced hydrogen through reverse water-gas shift reaction (RWGS) to increase the propylene yield Eqs. (8), ((9) [7,68,69]:
(8)
C3H3⇄C3H3+H2
(9)
CO2+H2⇄CO+H2O
The RWGS products can also help the desorption of ethylene that possibly is produced by either the dry reforming or thermal/catalytic-cracking reactions (Eqs. (10)–(12)) [7,68,69].
(10)
C3H3+3CO2⇄6CO+4H2
(11)
2C3H3+2CO2→3C2H4+2CO+2H2O
(12)
C3H8→C2H4+CH4
From the TOS curves, we recognize that at the beginning of the reaction, CO, methane and ethylene have higher values. As the reaction proceeds, the number of moles and selectivity of these byproducts decreases. Therefore, we propose that at the beginning of the reaction, that the catalysts have more Cr(VI), the conversion of propane and the amount of byproducts are high. By the progress of the reaction with TOS, the number of less selective sites decreases which results in higher selectivity of propylene.
However, interaction of propane and CO2 over chromium oxide catalysts is not limited to the aforementioned reactions. The other role of CO2 in the CO2-ODHP reaction is elimination of coke, as the product of severe cracking reactions, through reverse Boudouard reaction (Eq. (13)) [7,68,69,71].
(13)
CO2+C⇄2CO
Based on the UV–Vis-DRS, HRTEM and dark field STEM images, TPR and NH3 desorption results, the ALD catalysts revealed the higher dispersion of CrOx particles and higher content of polymeric Cr(VI) species, compared to their analogous impregnation catalysts. This aspect of ALD synthesized catalysts, resulted in their higher activity and reaction rates. In contrast, the lower dispersion and higher ratio of inactive monomeric Cr(VI) in the impregnated catalysts decreased their activity in dehydrogenation of propane with CO2. As reported by Wang et al. [14], the polymerized chromium oxide species more strongly adsorb propane which results in higher conversion. The higher the degree of polymerization, results in the enhanced conversion of propane. The positive effect of dispersion of CrOx particles on silica support in providing superior catalyst activity in CO2-ODHP reaction was reported by Wang et al. [13].
The study of catalytic performance with temperature was carried out in the temperature range of 550–700 °C. As shown in Figs. 14 (a, b) and S16 with the increase of temperature, the selectivity of propylene dramatically decreases while the conversion of propane increases. At lower temperatures, e.g. 550 °C and 600 °C, the selectivity (and number of moles) of methane and ethylene is not significant while propylene and CO are the major products. Regarding the number of moles of propylene compared to CO, we realize that propylene has higher values for the ALD and impregnation catalysts with Cr loadings of 0.72 and 1.13. Therefore, the direct dehydrogenation of propane partly occurs over these catalysts in parallel to the redox pathway. As the temperature increases from 600 °C to 700 °C, the number of moles of CO, methane and ethylene as dry reforming/cracking reaction products increases and the selectivity of propylene decreases.
Download : Download high-res image (954KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 14. (a) Conversion of propane vs temperature, (b) selectivity of propylene as a function of reaction temperature, and (c) Arrhenius Plot of ln(k) vs 1000.T−1 (K−1), (d, e, f) temperature dependence selectivity of methane, ethane and ethylene respectively. Reaction condition: Total flow rate = 30 sccm, C3H8 = 1.5 sccm, CO2:C3H8 = 5:1.
Results of blank test over silica powder shows a very small contribution of non-catalytic reactions at 600 °C. However, as the temperature increases, the extent of non-catalytic reactions, in agreement with [72], also increases with a lower selectivity of propylene.
To calculate the kinetic parameters from these data, we modelled the reactor with a plug flow reactor (PFR), as the frequently quoted rule with L/dp>30 [73] was met. A power-law reaction rate model was assumed with the order of 0.65 with respect to propane reported for CO2-ODHP over silica supported chromium oxide catalysts [68]. Since excess CO2 (CO2/C3H8 = 5) was used in the CO2-ODHP reaction, the CO2 concentration in the reactor remained almost constant. Therefore, the rate constant at each temperature was calculated in the temperature range of 550–700 °C. The Arrhenius plots were presented in Fig. 14c and the resulting k0, Ea and the R2 values were presented in Table 1. As shown, the slopes of the curves do not change and the apparent Ea in the temperature range of 550–700 °C were in the range of 95–133 kJ.mol−1 in agreement with reported values [74,75]. Further, the Mears and Weisz-Prater criteria and Biot number calculations according to literature [76], [77], [78] (See the S. 9 section of Supplementary Information) indicate that the heat and mass transfer effects on the reaction kinetics are negligible in the whole temperature range. Therefore, the kinetics is not falsified with the transfer limitations and true activation energies are obtained.
Table 1. Activation energy (Ea), R2 and pre-exponential factor (k0) for the ALD and impregnations catalysts with different Cr loadings.
%Cr Ea (kJ.mol−1) R2 k01
ALD Imp ALD Imp ALD Imp
0.34 115 119 0.992 0.989 1.5 1.6
0.72 94 105 0.989 0.993 0.2 0.6
1.13 96 95 0.988 0.982 0.3 0.2
1
(mol0.65. m−1.95.gr-cat−1.s−1)
3.4. Catalysts deactivation
To find out the reason of the activity loss with time on stream, reported in Fig. 13 of Section 3.3., XANES spectra of spent catalysts were measured and represented in Fig. 15 (a, b). The results show the disappearance of Cr(VI) pre-edge peak and edge red-shift as clear signs of conversion of Cr6+ to Cr3+ upon introduction of the CO2-ODHP reaction feed, in accordance with what was reported by Santhosh Kumar et al. [53].
Download : Download high-res image (503KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 15. XANES spectra of as-synthesized and spent (a) ALD and (b) impregnation catalysts with Cr loading of 0.72 wt%. The pent catalyst was collected after 6 h time on stream under CO2-ODHP reaction at 600 °C with total flow rate of 30 sccm, C3H8 = 1.5 sccm, CO2:C3H8 = 5:1.
Then, to study the changes of reducibility of the catalysts after reaction and re-oxidation, TPR was performed on reoxidized catalysts, as shown in Figs. 16 and S17 (c–f). The ALD catalysts presented higher reducibility with minor changes, in comparison to the fresh samples, while the impregnation catalysts showed a considerable loss of reducibility and a high temperature TPR peak. These results suggest that for the ALD catalysts, with higher proportions of polymerized Cr species, the reduction of Cr6+ to Cr3+ was more reversible than that of impregnation catalysts.
Download : Download high-res image (472KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 16. H2-TPR spectra of as-synthesized and spent (a) ALD and (b) impregnated catalysts with Cr loading of 1.13 wt%. H2-TPR reaction condition: heating rate = 10 °C.min−1, 8 sccm 7% H2 in Ar. The spent catalyst was collected after 6 h time on stream under CO2-ODHP reaction at 600 °C with total flow rate of 30 sccm, C3H8 = 1.5 sccm, CO2:C3H8 = 5:1 and then regenerated with 4% O2 in N2 at 550 °C for 1 h before TPR experiment. The whole set of data can be found in Fig. S17.
Further, the widely used temperature programmed oxidation (TPO) technique was utilized to quantify and measure the coke content of the spent catalysts that is the other cause for deactivation [79]. Fig. 17 (a, b) shows that oxidized carbon atoms evolve dominantly as CO2. This observation is supported by the thermodynamic consideration that CO2 is the energetically favored product of TPO, and by the kinetic view that CO can be rapidly oxidized to CO2 [80].
Download : Download high-res image (495KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 17. The rate of CO2 and CO evolution as the only hydrocarbon products of Temperature Programmed Oxidation (TPO) reaction. TPO conditions: heating rate = 10 °C.min−1, air flow rate = 50 sccm, Before TPO, the catalysts were exposed to CO2-ODHP reaction feed for 6 h TOS with a flow rate of 30 sccm at 600 °C where the ratio of Ar: CO2: Propane was 14:5:1.
Fig. 18 shows that the amount of coke deposits increases significantly with the increment of the chromium loading, while the relative deactivation rate has a reversed trend. In addition, the ALD samples that showed the higher activity in the CO2-ODHP reaction exhibited higher amount of coke and less relative deactivation rate compared to the analogous impregnated catalysts. From the results, firstly, we can deduce that the Cr(VI) oxide are responsible for more conversion of propane and the stronger adsorption of propane and propylene which causes cracking reactions and coke formation at the early stage of deactivation with a steep slope. Secondly, coke can selectively deactivate less-selective catalytic sites as reported by others [14,[81], [82], [83]]. As the selectivity enhancement is observed in Fig. 13 at the beginning of each TOS curve, the idea of less-selective site coating with coke may be rational. As can be seen in the TOS results (Fig. 13), by the progress of the reaction, the deactivation of the catalysts proceeds with a low and ever-decreasing slope. This deactivation step may come from segregation or sintering of the surface chromium oxide sites as reported by Baek et al. [9]. The lower deactivation rate at the later TOS, which means more stability, may originate from another beneficial effect of coke that geometrically puts restriction on the sintering of CrOx particles by isolating them from their proximate particles, as reported by Galsson et al. [84].
Download : Download high-res image (276KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 18. The relative deactivation rate calculated from conversion-TOS data (a), coke content calculated from TPO curves (b) as a function of Cr loading in ALD and impregnation catalysts.
4. Conclusion
In summary, the atomic layer deposition method was used to synthesize CrOx/SiO2 catalysts for dehydrogenation of propane with CO2 to propylene (CO2-ODHP). The ALD temperature window at which partial monolayer of reactively chemisorbed Cr(acac)3 was formed on the silica, rather than the condensation or chemical vapor deposition, was found. The ALD synthesis method resulted in the higher dispersion of chromium oxide particles and higher content of polychromate species which both resulted in higher specific reaction rates in CO2-ODHP reaction, while the selectivity did not drop significantly. We suggest that the higher activity in CO2-ODHP reaction, acidity, and H2-reducibility of the ALD catalysts result from the higher dispersion of CrOx particles and enhanced contents of polychromates. In addition, the beneficial effects of coke on chromium oxide catalysts in CO2-ODPH were observed in this study. The deactivated ALD catalysts with higher coke contents still show higher activity than the impregnation ones, due possibly to selective deactivation of less-active sites or the coke is not the main cause of the deactivation.
Funding
Partial financial support from Iranian National Science Foundation (INSF) under Contract No. 97015267 is gratefully acknowledged. A financial support from “Catalysts and Nano-structured Materials” Scientific Chair of Iranian National Science Foundation (INSF ID 950020) is highly appreciated. S.H. was supported by the Academy of Finland (Grant No. 295696).
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Fatemeh Gashoul Daresibi: Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing, Visualization. Abbas Ali Khodadadi: Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Investigation, Resources, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition. Yadollah Mortazavi: Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Resources, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition. Simo Huotari: Validation, Investigation, Resources, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Funding acquisition. Mikko Ritala: Resources, Validation, Writing – review & editing, Supervision.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Appendix. Supplementary materials
Download : Download Word document (2MB)
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
