I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Combining alkylation and transalkylation for alkylaromatic production
The alkylation of aromatic hydrocarbons with olefins is applied on a large scale in the chemical industry. The efficiency of these productions is highly improved performing alkylation combined with transalkylation, the latter allowing conversion of some low valued by-products such as polyalkylbenzenes into their monosubstituted homologues. The aim of this contribution is to summarize some examples of novel industrial processes, based on new catalysts that are environmentally friendly, for the production of ethylbenzene and cumene, two of the most important chemicals produced by alkylation/transalkylation.
1 Introduction
Ethylbenzene (EB), cumene, p-diethylbenzene, p-diisopropylbenzene, C10C14 linear alkylbenzenes (LAB) and cymene are some of the chemical intermediates obtained by acid catalyzed alkylation on the aromatic ring of benzene or toluene.1
Scheme 1 summarizes several aromatic alkylations industrially applied for the preparation of important chemical intermediates. These reactions include the most important aromatic substrates, benzene, toluene and xylene, and different olefins. They also include two different kinds of alkylation: the electrophilic alkylation on the aromatic ring catalyzed by acids and the side-chain alkylation catalyzed by bases.
Scheme 1 Industrial aromatic alkylations.
From the point of view of production volume, the acid catalyzed alkylations are by far the most important. In 2002 the world overall demand for benzene was around 33 million tons. Alkylbenzene derivatives account for about 75% of the total benzene production (Fig. 1).
Fig. 1 Breakdown of benzene uses in the chemical industry (EBZ: ethylbenzene; CUM: cumene; LAB: Linear alkylbenzene; CHX: cyclohexane; NBZ: nitrobenzene).
Transalkylation is often combined with alkylation in order to convert low valued by-products such as polyalkylbenzenes into their monosubstituted homologues, globally improving the efficiency of the process.
The oldest technologies available to perform these alkylations/transalkylations are based on catalysts which have drawbacks. Often such catalysts are strong mineral acids or Lewis acids (e.g.: HF, H2SO4, AlCl3). These acids are highly toxic and corrosive. They are dangerous to handle and to transport as they corrode storage and disposal containers. Besides, because the reaction products are mixed with acids, the separation at the end of the reaction is often a difficult and energy consuming process. Very frequently at the end of the reaction these acids are neutralized and therefore the corresponding salts have to be disposed of.
In order to avoid these problems many efforts have been devoted to the search for solid acids that are more selective, safe and environmentally friendly. Among the different solid acids, zeolites have been extensively evaluated for such a purpose,2 and here we review the main results obtained in this field.
2 Alkylation of benzene to produce ethylbenzene (EB)
The alkylation of benzene with ethylene is an electrophilic substitution on the aromatic ring. Alkylation reactions are commonly considered as proceeding via carbenium-ion-type mechanisms. On a Brnsted acid site ethylene is protonated to form the active species. The latter can follow two major routes (Scheme 2):
• it can react with benzene producing EB which can later undergo other reactions producing mainly diethyl- and triethylbenzene (DEB and TEB).
• it can react with another ethylene molecule producing a C4 species which can further transform by alkylation, oligomerization, isomerization or cracking giving other alkylbenzenes and olefins.
Scheme 2 Reaction pathway of benzenealkylation with ethylene.
To a very small extent EB undergoes alkylation to diphenylethane. It must be remarked that DEB and TEB can be easily recovered by transalkylation with benzene to EB, so they can be considered useful products. On the contrary the formation of olefins and other alkylbenzenes heavily affects the efficiency of the process by increasing the specific consumption of ethylene and benzene and reducing the EB quality.
In the traditional process, developed since the 1930s, the alkylation is performed by reacting benzene and ethylene in the presence of a FriedelCrafts catalyst (i.e. AlCl3HCl) under mild conditions (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 Pros and cons in the alkylation of benzene with ethylene catalyzed by AlCl3.
Starting from the mid-1960s different zeolite-based catalysts were extensively evaluated in the alkylation. In 1966 Venuto et al. reported that X and Y zeolites are more effective catalysts for benzenealkylation with olefins than amorphous silica-alumina gels.3
In spite of the big effort, it still took ten years to accomplish the first industrial alkylation process based on a zeolitecatalyst, which in fact occurred in 1976. This process, developed by Mobil and Badger for the production of EB in the gas-phase, was based on a ZSM-5 type zeolite.4
Later improvements were obtained introducing
(a) the liquid-phase alkylation and
(b) a separate step of transalkylation.
The liquid-phase has the advantage of better thermal control and longer catalyst life, which allows off site catalyst regeneration and therefore easier control of pollution. To do this it was necessary to move from medium pore zeolites like ZSM-5 to large pore zeolites such as Beta and Y. The introduction of new zeolitecatalysts together with process up-grading produced significant yield improvements (Fig. 3).
Fig. 3 Yield progress in ethylbenzene production.
Therefore, starting from 1980 the MobilBadger process has been extensively applied in the alkylation units. The main feature of ZSM-5, the zeolite used, is its tridimensional pore structure with 10MR openings suitable for gas-phase operation.
The next achievement was then represented by the development of a liquid-phase process by UOP/Lummus/Unocal,5 first commercialized in Japan in 1990, with a catalyst based on zeolite Y. In this case the zeolite has a tridimensional pore system too, but with large openings. A drawback of this structure is represented by the supercages at the interconnection of the pores as they favor the formation of bulky by-products. To overcome this problem, two companies claimed independently the use of zeolite Beta for EB production: Chevron patented it in the USA and EniChem in Europe.6,7 In fact, zeolite Beta has a tridimensional pore system like Y, but without cages.
More recently the better performance of zeolite Beta with respect to Y type zeolites was also reported by Mobil researchers who confirmed that USY (ultra-stable Y zeolite) is also affected by rapid decay. However in the same paper,8 a new zeolite MCM-22 was reported to have a catalytic activity comparable (i.e. comparable kinetic constants) to USY and around 2.4 times less than zeolite Beta. On the other hand, MCM-22 was much more selective, the formation of DEB and TEB being significantly lower than with USY or Beta. This results in a larger ethylation selectivity (Fig. 4).
Fig. 4 Liquid-phase alkylation of benzene with ethylene (T = 220 C; P = 3.44 MPa; B/E = 4). kalk is the pseudo first order kinetic constant of the reaction.
However, the zeolites compared in this paper8 are characterized by different Si/Al ratios and in particular the Beta sample has a lower Al content than MCM-22. In Fig. 5 the comparison is extended including the data reported by Bellussi et al.9 and Corma et al.10 Though the operating conditions are different, there seems reasonable evidence of an increase of performance while decreasing the Si/Al ratio, i.e. increasing the Al content. Additionally, when the Si/Al is similar, zeolite Beta performs a bit better than MCM-22.10
Fig. 5 Effect of Si/Al on zeolite performance.
By evaluating these data, a straightforward conclusion cannot be drawn. It is only possible to underline that, besides the structure, the composition must also be selected with care in order to develop a good alkylation catalyst.
MCM-22 is characterized by a complex porous structure, formed by two non-interconnected pore systems, both having 10MR openings. One pore system is constituted by large supercages (a sort of cylinder 18 Å long and 7.1 Å wide) interconnected by slightly elliptical openings, the other by sinusoidal channels also with a slightly elliptical section. To account for the interesting performances of MCM-22 in EB synthesis it is assumed that a sensible number of the large cavities that characterize its structure are opened to the exterior at the termination of crystallites. Following this model, it is assumed that on the [001] surface of the platelet-like crystallites are present emisupercages, having a free diameter of ca. 0.71 nm. In this case the EB formation should occur in these cavities, practically without diffusion barriers.8,10
To further increase the number of these emisupercages, Corma suggested delamination of the MCM-22 precursors, and so obtained a new material called ITQ-2, still preserving the channel system but with the cavities more accessible.11 The new material was claimed to behave better than MCM-22 in the EB production (Fig. 6).12
Fig. 6 The catalytic comparison of ITQ-2 and MCM-22 (T = 240 C; P = 3.5 MPa; B/E = 8).
A useful corollary to the EB synthesis is the transalkylation of polyethylbenzenes (DEB, TEB) with benzene to form EB. The facility of the zeolite-catalyzed transalkylation was already remarked by Venuto et al. in contrast to the higher temperatures required for such a reaction with amorphous silica-alumina.3
Two different approaches were reported in order to improve the selectivity for monoalkylbenzene. The polyethylbenzene fraction can either be recycled to the alkylation reactor in a proportion over the equilibrium one or it can be transalkylated in a proper reactor. With AlCl3 the first solution is adopted and a composition close to the thermodynamic equilibrium is reached, therefore depending on the ethylene/benzene overall ratio.13 As reported above, the first generation MobilBadger process was characterized by a single reactor where alkylation and transalkylation were performed simultaneously under gas-phase conditions. A separate transalkylation step has since been proposed using either gas-phase with ZSM-5 as catalyst or liquid-phase with Y, Beta and MCM-22 zeolites as catalysts.13
An extensive study on the transalkylation of DEB catalyzed by zeolite Beta has been reported by Cavani et al.14 The transalkylation of DEB with benzene goes through an ethyl-1,1-diphenylethane intermediate and in this way EB is formed. Several by-reactions affect the selectivity of transalkylation and some of them are favored by temperature, as reported in the reaction pathway proposed in ref. 14 (Fig. 7):
Fig. 7 Reaction scheme for DEB transalkylation with benzene (T = reactions favored at higher temperatures).
1. cracking of EB to toluene
2. condensation of ortho-DEB to tetraline and naphthalene
3. cracking of butylbenzenes to cumene and NPB
4. alkylation of EB on B to 1,1- and 1,2-diphenylethane.
Several industrial units have been recently revamped or realized with new zeolitecatalysts operating in the liquid-phase. MCM-22 has been successfully applied in a new process called EBMaxSM and licensed by Mobil/Raytheon15 since 1995. Zeolite Beta has been successfully employed by Polimeri Europa (formerly EniChem) in the revamping of an existing EB unit in 2002. Besides, since 1990 UOP/Lummus have been improving the process based on zeolite Y. Currently, the commercialized process is named EBOne.16 A zeolitecatalyst has been also applied in the catalytic distillation technology by CDTECH, a partnership between ABB Lummus and Chemical Research and Licensing.17 CDTECH offers its energy-saving catalytic distillation process for EB production, recommended particularly for dilute ethylene streams. Both EBOne and CDTECH EB use a modified zeolite Beta as catalyst.16,17
Of around 70 EB units operating in the world, 24% are still based on AlCl3HCl. The rest are based on zeolitecatalysts: 40% in the gas-phase and 36% in the liquid-phase.13
3 Alkylation of benzene to produce cumene
The manufacture of cumene as a blending agent for high-octane gasoline was carried out during the Second World War on a very large scale. The alkylation catalyst used was H2SO4. The problems related to the use of free mineral acids were later overcome by using supported phosphoric acid (SPA) on Kieselguhr. This catalyst is still largely used for the production of cumene. However, due to the release of the acid, corrosion problems frequently arise. Besides, because of the decay also due to the formation of organic residues on the catalyst surface, at the end of the life cycle this catalyst cannot be regenerated.
The evolution of the catalytic systems for cumene production is somewhat similar to that described for EB. However, differently from EB, the research efforts took longer time to reach an industrial application. This time lag probably depended on the inability of ZSM-5, the first catalyst of EB MobilBadger process, to satisfactorily catalyze the cumene synthesis in the gas-phase. ZSM-5, in fact, produces an elevated cumene isomerization to n-propylbenzene, possibly due to the high temperature necessary to overcome the diffusion constraints in its 10MR pores. Besides, a quite rapid decay was observed due to the higher tendency of propylene to produce oligomers with respect to ethylene. On the other hand, ZSM-5 shows poor catalytic activity in liquid-phase alkylation, probably because of diffusion constraints.9
As a matter of fact, the important steps toward applicable results were
(a) the move to the liquid-phase operation and
(b) the use of zeolites with 12MR pore openings (e.g. Y, mordenite, ZSM-12, Omega, Beta and MCM-22).
Based on these zeolites, new commercial processes or industrial test runs were announced in the 1990s by Dow-Kellogg, Mobil-Raytheon, CDTech, EniChem and UOP.18
The reaction pathway of the benzene alkylation with propylene catalyzed by acids is very similar to that already reported for EB. The main difference is represented by the tendency of cumene to isomerize to n-propylbenzene, which is thermodynamically more stable at increased temperature.19 Also, cumene can later undergo further alkylation to diisopropylbenzene (DIPB). Again DIPB can be easily recovered by transalkylation with benzene to cumene, so they can be considered useful by-products.
The isopropylation of cumene is an electrophilic substitution. Isopropyl is an orthopara orienting group. So first ortho and para isomers are formed, followed by isomerization to meta, which is thermodynamically more stable as evidenced by the composition at equilibrium (Fig. 8). Under kinetic control, on a simply statistical basis the distribution would be in favor of ortho, but we know that the charge distribution of the corresponding arenium ion will drive the isomer formation: 50% of ortho, 30% of para and 20% of meta. This would be true in the absence of other factors. However, the influence of the steric hindrance of the alkyl group in position 1 on the attack is well known in ortho. For instance the o/p ratio decreases from 1.57 for toluene, through 0.93 for ethylbenzene to 0.48 for cumene in the case of nitration.20 The catalytic data for SPA, which is a solid acid with an open structure, are in good agreement: the o/p ratio is around 0.45.
Fig. 8 Isopropylation of cumene catalyzed by acids.
If the catalyst is also strong enough to catalyze the isomerization, the reaction can proceed to approach thermodynamic equilibrium. This is not the case with SPA but is the case with AlCl3.
When zeolites are used another factor plays an important role: the shape selectivity. Fig. 9 compares meta/para for the different zeolites, as reported in21,22, with the values of the thermodynamic equilibrium. A high meta/para ratio, close to the equilibrium value, indicates high isomerization of zeolite Beta and mordenite. In the case of USY, because of the presence of supercages, the shape selectivity should be excluded; so the low meta/para ratio indicates low isomerization activity. On the contrary, the low meta/para ratio obtained with ZSM-5 and ZSM-12 seems to be due to the shape selectivity. As a matter of fact, the para selectivity of ZSM-5 and ZSM-12 in the isopropylation of cumene has already been reported.19,23 MCM-22 behaves in the middle.
Fig. 9 Alkylation of benzene with propylene (T = 150 C; P = 3.5 MPa; B/P = 7; WHSV = 3 h1): meta/paradiisopropylbenzene ratio.
For cumene, the transalkylation also plays an important role. The transalkylation reaction requires a higher temperature than the related alkylation. Besides, not all the alkylation catalysts are suitable for transalkylation. It is known that the SPA is not able to transalkylate DIPB,1 similar to free sulfuric acid and amorphous silica-alumina gels, under alkylation conditions.3 On the contrary AlCl3 is able to do it. As a matter of fact, in the 1980s Monsanto introduced a technology based on AlCl3HCl, similar to that in use for EB production, with the aim of improving cumene yield by polyisopropylbenzene transalkylation,. However, only a few plants were realized using this technology.
The catalytic ability of zeolites (e.g. Y) in the transalkylation of DIPB has been claimed in the patent literature since the 1960s.24 Later, Harper et al. showed that during the alkylation of benzene with propylene catalyzed by a rare earth exchanged Y zeolite (REY), the transalkylation reaction also took place.25 Conversion profiles, obtained by varying the residence time in the alkylator, showed that the DIPBs reach a maximum and then decay, just before the complete conversion of propylene. According to this, the selectivity for cumene increased, approaching the equilibrium value. Therefore two different approaches were suggested in order to improve the selectivity for cumene. The DIPBs fraction can either be recycled to the alkylation reactor in a proportion over the equilibrium one25 or it can be transalkylated in a proper reactor.24
However around 25 years later, a transalkylation zeolitecatalyst was industrially applied for the first time by Dow Kellog. In 1992 the cumene plant of Terneuzen (The Netherlands), based on SPA, was modified with the addition of a transalkylation reactor with a dealuminated mordenite catalyst.26 Nowadays the new cumene technologies include a transalkylation step, based on a zeolitecatalyst, the same or similar to the alkylation one.
According to Pradhan and Rao,27zeolite Beta is more stable in the transalkyaltion of DIPB, with respect to LaY and mordenite (Fig. 10).
Fig. 10 DIBP transalkylation (T = 170 C, P = atmospheric, benzene/DIPB = 17, WHSV = 3.5 h1).
The first industrial demonstrations of cumene technologies based on zeolitecatalysts were started-up in 1996 by Mobil-Raytheon, EniChem and UOP, independently. In all cases, existing SPA cumene plants were revamped by substituting the old SPA catalyst with new zeolitecatalysts. According to Degnan et al.28 in 2001 14 cumene units in the world were already operating with zeolitecatalysts.
4 Conclusion
For the production of alkylaromatics new solid catalysts and new processes have recently been introduced conforming to the environmental and safety concerns. Various solid catalysts based on different zeolites have been developed for both the alkylation and transalkylation steps. In particular for EB and cumene, which account for the largest alkylaromatic productions, new zeolitecatalysts are currently available.
Of around 70 EB units operating in the world, 24% are still based on AlCl3HCl. The others are based on zeolitecatalysts: 40% in the gas-phase and 36% in the liquid-phase.
For cumene production, among 40 units in the world, 14 cumene plants are in operation with zeolitecatalysts.
The most promising zeolites for liquid-phase production of both EB and cumene are MCM-22 and Beta.
Appendix 1
Capacity and uses
In 2001 the global production for ethylbenzene was almost 24 million metric tons and its demand will increase at an average annual rate of 4.6% from 2001 to 2006. Almost all of the ethylbenzene produced in the world is used in the manufacture of styrene, the building block for plastics and elastomers. Therefore the demand for ethylbenzene is determined primarily by styrene production. Consumption of ethylbenzene for uses other than the production of styrene is estimated to be less than 1% of total ethylbenzene production. It is used as a solvent and, on occasion, in the production of diethylbenzene, acetophenone and ethyl anthraquinone.
As far as cumene is concerned, the world production in 2001 accounted for 8.5 millions metric tons. Essentially all global cumene is consumed for the production of phenol and acetone. New bisphenol A capacity and increased demand for bisphenol A will result in a strong demand for phenol. As a result, consumption of cumene for phenol is forecast to show annual growth rates of 5.4% from 2001 to 2006 (Chemical Economics Handbook  SRI International 2002).
Appendix 2
Ethylbenzene production by recovery of aromatic mixtures
Ethylbenzene is present in the C8 aromatic streams coming from catalytic reforming or from steam cracking in quantities ranging from 10 up to 40%. Due to the low relative volatility of the ethylbenzene/xylenes system, the separation of ethylbenzene from the aromatic C8 requires a large number of trays and a high reflux ratio (390 real trays with reflux ratios up to 80 to 90). These conditions are highly costly which makes this superfractionation quite expensive. Besides, the quality of ethylbenzene from C8 cuts is usually lower than that from alkylation because of the large contamination from xylenes (some hundreds ppm vs. less than 50 ppm). However, the separation of ethylbenzene from the aromatic C8 cut improves the efficiency of the following xylene isomerization and separation process.29 As a matter of fact, the ethylbenzene from superfractionation of C8 cuts accounts for about 5% of the overall ethylbenzene production.
Questions and answers
Will acetone co-production negatively affect the cumene process?
The oxidative conversion of cumene into phenol implies the co-production of an equimolar quantity of acetone. The fact that acetone demand is totally unrelated to phenol demand may cause concerns about the success of phenol production viacumene. In fact, phenol production viacumene would not be viable if phenol demand was much higher than acetone demand. A possible solution to these problems is the re-use of acetone in the benzene alkylation prior to acetone hydrogenation to isopropanol. The alkylation of benzene with isopropanol has been extensively studied: in one of the most interesting studies it has been shown that a catalyst based on zeolite Beta is highly adequate for the reaction, producing results comparable to those performed in an industrial plant using propylene30
Alternative methods for phenol production which fully overcome the possible problems associated with the cumene process are:
Direct benzeneoxidation by N2O catalyzed by iron zeolite. This process has been tested at a pilot plant by Solutia and is called AlphOx. It provides benzene conversion up to 30% with phenol selectivity of 99% but the process seems to be cost effective only if N2O can be obtained cheaply as a by-product from adipic acid production.31
Direct benzeneoxidation by H2O2 catalyzed by a modified titanium silicalite. This method has been developed by Polimeri Europa and researchers have demonstrated that it is possible to obtain benzene conversion higher than 8% with phenol selectivity up to 94%.32
Direct benzeneoxidation by oxygen activated by dissociated hydrogen obtained from a palladium membrane. An efficient one step conversion of benzene to phenol has been reported performing the oxidation by means of oxygen and hydrogen catalyzed by a palladium membrane. The results are still at the laboratory scale and show that it is possible to obtain phenol with a selectivity higher than 90% at a benzene conversion lower than 3%.33
These last two procedures are very interesting although much has still to be done to arrive at an industrial process.
Will benzene continue to be the raw material for styrene production?
According to Dow and DSM, butadiene could be the raw material for styrene production. The new process implies:
Catalytic cyclodimerization of butadiene to 4-vinylcyclohexene.
Oxidative dehydrogenation of 4-vinylcyclohexene.
Although all the steps have been fully demonstrated and optimized, the butadiene based process will hardly be competitive with the traditional process, specially due to the limited feedstock availability which imposes a small plant capacity and therefore a diseconomy of scale.
A second alternative to the use of benzene as raw material is based on methanol alkylation of toluene: it is an old technology, developed by Monsanto in the 70's which has not had significant improvements in recent years. Despite the fact that selectivities based on methanol are low (about 50%), this chemistry suggests an interesting process that may utilize toluene and synthesis gas which very likely costs lower than the conventional raw material.34
Will the use of alkanes in the benzene alkylation processes be possible?
Light paraffins are very abundant and much less expensive than the corresponding olefins; therefore employing alkanes as raw material for the synthesis of bulk chemicals is certainly one of the challenges for this century. Among others, interesting results have been reported on benzenealkylation with propane over a Pt-modified MFI zeolite, for which the yield of propylbenzenes reached 96% with respect to equilibrium and selectivity for propylbenzenes was about 60%. On these bi-functional catalysts, propane dehydrogenation and protonation may take place on a metal-acidic center, which results in direct benzenealkylation.35 At present these results are meaningful only as far as the scientific point of view is concerned, however, if they ever led to an industrial success, they would represent a real breakthrough in alkylbenzenes production.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 