<DOCUMENT>
Integrating dehydrogenation of alkanes with selective hydrogen combustion – A sustainable route for olefin production using tandem catalysis
Highlights
•
Direct dehydrogenation (DDH) of light hydrocarbons for on-purpose olefin production.
•
Structure-activity relationship metal/zeolite catalysts in dehydrogenation.
•
Routes for integrating DDH with selective hydrogen combustion via tandem catalysis.
•
Concept of tandem catalysis and principles of designing integrated tandem catalysts.
•
Challenges and perspectives on development of tandem catalysts for the processes.
Abstract
With the fast depletion of oil-based feedstocks and the huge abundance of underutilized Shale gas and natural gas, direct dehydrogenation of alkanes (DDH) is extensively explored as an alternative on-purpose route for olefins production. In this regard, innovative approaches, such as tandem catalysis at nanoscale offers an environmentally friendly route for sustainable production of olefins and other high values chemicals. This contribution presents the recent advances connected to coupling of the DDH with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) to circumvent the thermodynamic challenge that inherently constrained the process to low single-pass conversion. Precisely, the work covers application of sequential reactors/beds to enable intermittent SHC, application of redox oxides in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) mode, and application of tandem catalysis at nanoscale to couple DDH and SHC via utilizing zeolite-encapsulated systems and application of redox SHC catalysts interfaced with DDH catalysts. The insights and perspectives provided herein can potentially guide in the formulation and development of efficient tandem catalysts to further promote the process.
Graphical abstract
Tandem catalysis continues to expands the realm of heterogeneous catalysis in enabling sustainable alternatives for chemical and fuel production. Typically, it provides  promising alternatives to circumvent the thermodynamic challenge of direct dehydrogenation of light alkanes (DDH) as an on-purpose route for olefin production via coupling it with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC), especially with the recent development of integrated tandem catalyst with requisite multifunctionality.
Download : Download high-res image (207KB)
Download : Download full-size image
1. Introduction
In recent times, the chemical industry has become more challenged to accommodate the dynamics in feedstock sustainability and the need to ensure that chemical processes are more environmentally benign. For example, production of light olefins from steam cracking of lighter hydrocarbons is a matured industrial process that is highly energy-intensive [1], and the fast depletion of oil reserves coupled with the wide availability of gaseous hydrocarbon (C1C4), obtained from shale gas and off gasses from petroleum production and refinery in may part of the world, prompted huge research interest for exploration of better green alternative production processes [2]. Notably, advances in heterogeneous catalysis has enabled a vital platform to facilitate the upgrading of the large underutilized alkane feedstock, especially towards realizing sustainable alternatives to meet up the increase global olefin demand. Among the alternative routes explored for on-purpose olefins production from hydrocarbon feedstocks (C2C4) is the direct dehydrogenation (DDH), a non-oxidative process [3]. However, despite the process being commercialized, it demands operation at elevated temperatures in order to realize high conversion rates due to inherent equilibrium limitation. Thus, resulting in high energy consumption, rapid catalyst deactivation and poor selectivity towards desired olefins since thermal cracking overwhelms at high temperatures.
To offset the thermodynamic limitation and external heat requirement of the DDH, the process could be facilitated via oxidative mode using molecular oxygen, but poor selectivity control due to overoxidation of the hydrocarbon feedstock and generated olefins remains its major problem [4]. The application of CO2 as a soft oxidant provides an alternative to overcome the challenge but the conversions of both hydrocarbons and CO2 are usually low [5]. Moreover, the use of lattice oxygens of metal oxide catalysts is a promising option to enable the alkane dehydrogenation by oxidative route [6]. A significant number of researches are in progress to screen and develop excellent redox catalysts [6,7]. On another perspective, coupling and mediating direct dehydrogenation (DDH) and selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) on a single tandem catalyst with suitable bifunctionality combines the advantages of both the oxidative and non-oxidative routes, and is highly promising for upgrading of light alkanes to olefins [8].
Earlier, tandem catalysis has been investigated in synthesis of organic products to realize resource efficient chemistry [9]. Recently, the concept attracted attention to other applications and is rapidly evolving, beyond conventional catalysis [10]. Typically, it opens new paradigm towards rational unification of homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis – two areas that greatly evolved along parallel pathways and were seen as apparently diverse fields, in spite of having comparable concepts and common challenges [11]. This create a possibility to harness the exclusive advantages of the two fields and provide different routes for producing chemicals and energy in sustainable ways [10]. The elimination of mass and heat transfer limitations are the common approaches in process intensification. In this aspect, the application of tandem catalysis brings new opportunities in overcoming the transport limitations and contributing to the overall catalytic processes. The tandem DDH with SHC is represented by equations 1 and 2. Fig. 1 shows a graphical representation for dehydrogenation of alkanes to produce olefins through tandem DDH with SHC. In the bottom segment of the illustration, the global olefin supply/demand for the year of 2019 and their projected values for 2023 are indicated. One can see that the demand for ethylene and propylene were 208 and 110 million tonnes (Mt), respectively – the equivalent market values were 222 B and 84 B USD, respectively [12]. The light olefins are major feedstocks for the petrochemical/chemical industries to produce wide range of products such as plastics, epoxy resins and chemical reagents [7]. The demand for these products are increasing with increasing world population and improving quality of human life.
(1)
(2)
Download : Download high-res image (770KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Short chain olefins via coupling of direct dehydrogenation (DDH) with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC)) over tandem catalysts. The panel depicting the market status and projections was reproduced from reference [12] with permission from the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Herein, we provide a concise account on the various alternatives for promoting the direct dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons to olefins via coupling the processes with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC). The discussion covered application of sequential reactors/beds to enable intermittent SHC, application of redox oxides in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) mode, and application of tandem catalysis at nanoscale to couple DDH and SHC. Obviously, the tandem catalysis at nanoscale comprises of application of zeolite-encapsulated systems and application of redox SHC catalysts interfaced with DDH catalysts. Moreover, we have provided insightful discussions on important principles of tandem catalyst design and the prospect of core-shell configurations in providing high flexibility to implement the tandem catalyst design strategies. Obviously, tandem catalysis at nanoscale is a novel tool that could be utilized to expand the realm of heterogeneous catalysis to achieve process intensification at nanoscale. Thus, it provides a new perspective for improving the overall catalytic performance of the dehydrogenation of short chain alkanes as an on-purpose olefins production process.
2. Direct dehydrogenation of alkanes (DDH) to high-value olefins
The section aims to discuss the fundamentals of direct dehydrogenation of alkanes (DDH) and potential of coupling it with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC). Moreover, thermodynamic analysis of the tandem DDH with SHC was provided to illustrate that the design of efficient catalysts to enable effective kinetic control over the process is indispensable.
2.1. Brief description of the process
The dehydrogenation of the short chain alkanes is an industrial route for on-purpose olefins production, especially propylene and ethylene. Obviously, propylene and ethylene are major platform chemicals with huge global demand for diverse applications in the petrochemical industry [1]. Notably, Catofin and Oleflex are among the already commercialized dehydrogenation technologies, and several others such as STAR technology have been patented [13]. Nonetheless, the direct dehydrogenation (DDH) process still receives considerable research interest to resolve some of its inherent challenges and develop other emerging technologies based on new efficient catalyst systems. Eqs. (3)-8 depict the dehydrogenation of C2C4 paraffin, isobutane, and ethylbenzene. All the reactions are highly endothermic, making the DDH processes inherently energy-intensive. In literature, Pt and CrOx-based catalysts are among the most promising and widely investigated. Copper, zinc, gallium and bismuth are the other metals explored for the DDH process. Fig. 2a depicts representative elements (electronegativity is inset in the frame) utilized in development of PtM bimetallic catalysts for the DDH, while Fig. 2b and 2C illustrate the various model design for metal- and metal oxide-based catalysts [14].
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Download : Download high-res image (590KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Illustration of (a) representative elements (electronegativity is inset in the frame) utilized in development of PtM bimetallic catalysts for upgrading of light hydrocarbons to olefins via direct dehydrogenation (DDH), (b) model designs for metal-based catalyst, (c) model designs for metal oxide-based catalysts [14].
2.2. Structure-activity relationship of metal/zeolite catalysts in dehydrogenation
Metal-containing zeolites are promising catalysts for dehydrogenation reaction, as they combine the advantages of metal sites for dehydrogenation activity and zeolite micropores for coke suppression and shape selectivity. The structure-activity relationship of these catalysts depends on several factors, such as the type, size, dispersion, and location of the metal species, as well as the acidity, porosity, and morphology of the zeolite support [15]. One of the most studied metal/zeolite systems for dehydrogenation is platinum-tin (Pt-Sn) on MFI-type zeolites, such as ZSM-5 and Silicalite-1. Pt-Sn/MFI catalysts show high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, as well as good stability and resistance to coke formation. The structure-activity relationship of these catalysts has been investigated by Lezcano-González et al. [16], who prepared Pt-Sn/MFI catalysts by one-pot hydrothermal methods and characterized them by various techniques, including solid-state NMR (SSNMR). They found that the form and distribution of Pt and Sn species depend on the Si/Al ratio of the zeolite, the Pt/Sn ratio of the precursor, and the calcination temperature. The optimal catalyst showed a high dispersion of Pt species on highly defective Silicalite-1, with a small amount of Sn present as extraframework species. The authors proposed that the high activity and selectivity of this catalyst are due to the synergy between Pt and Sn, which enhances the activation of propane and suppresses hydrogenolysis and cracking reactions. Moreover, they suggested that the high stability and coke resistance are related to the low acidity and high defectivity of Silicalite-1, which prevent the formation of bulky coke precursors in the zeolite pores.
Another example of metal/zeolite catalyst for dehydrogenation is gallium (Ga) on various zeolites, such as CHA. Ga-based catalysts were originally developed for commercial application in propane dehydroaromatization, but are now rapidly being explored for dehydrogenation of light hydrocarbons as potential candidate to replace Pt and Cr-based catalysts in the process. The structure-activity relationship of these catalysts has been studied by Yuan et al. via in situ FTIR spectroscopy and pulse titration [17]. They revealed that upon reduction of surface Ga2O3, the reduced species preferentially diffuse into the zeolite pores and displace the available Brønsted acid sites and consequently form extra-framework Ga+ sites. The extra-framework Ga+ sites are the active sites catalyzing the dehydrogenation reaction where they reversibly react with H2 to form GaHx. Compared to In+ species in CHA zeolite, Ga+ sites are more uniformly distributed and their hydride transition states (GaHx) are more stable. This makes them excellent models for studies targeted at unraveling the intricacy in metal cation-exchanged hydrocarbon interactions in zeolites by utilizing relevant surface techniques such as X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and operando X-ray emission spectroscopy (XES). In addition, they have superior catalytic dehydrogenation performances [18]. Most recently, in attempt to further unravel the distinct nature of the Ga nuclearities (in terms of coordination environments, and oxidation states) that act as the main active centers, Li et al. employed rigorous X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) technique [19]. The authors found a strong evidence that the reduction of Ga(III) to Ga(I) at around 500 °C under hydrogen environment produces high-intensity and low-energy white line signature at the Ga K-edge. Again, Chen et al. reported direct detection of reactive gallium-hydride species on the Ga2O3 surface via solid-state NMR spectroscopy during direct H2 activation [20]. The compelling NMR evidence lays bare not only the distinct nature of the highly reactive surface gallium hydrides (Ga-H) but also its critical role in catalytic dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the zeolite support can significantly influence the catalytic performance, as evidenced by the superior catalytic activity of Ga-MFI compared to those of Ga-CHA and MOR [21].
The type of metal plays a key role in determining the dehydrogenation activity and selectivity of the catalyst. Generally, noble metals such as Pt, Pd, and Rh exhibit higher activity than non-noble metals such as Cr, V, Ni, and Co, but they also have higher tendency to form coke and cause catalyst deactivation. Therefore, alloying or doping noble metals with other metals can be an effective strategy to modulate their electronic and geometric properties, enhance their stability, and reduce their cost. For example, Pt-Cu alloy clusters supported on zeolite Y showed improved performance for propane dehydrogenation compared to pure Pt clusters, due to the formation of more active Pt-Cu interfacial sites and the suppression of coke formation by Cu [22]. Similarly, Pd-Zn bimetallic nanoparticles supported on zeolite beta exhibited higher activity and stability than monometallic Pd or Zn nanoparticles for ethane dehydrogenation, owing to the synergistic effect between Pd and Zn in facilitating the CH bond activation and inhibiting the hydrogenation of ethylene [23]. Interestingly, Viktor et al. probed the geometric and electronic effect of Zn promotion on Pt-based catalyst supported on silica via DFT, and they unraveled that incorporation of the Zn species caused significant modulation of the energy of the Pt 5d electrons in PtZn, which relates directly to turnover rate (TOR) [24]. In addition, controlled alloying with a suitable metal can eliminate the formation of large Pt ensembles due to geometric changes, as demonstrated in Pt-In bimetallic catalysts [25]. This promotes higher TOR and limits the chances for unwanted side reactions.
The size and dispersion of the metal species also influence the dehydrogenation performance of the catalyst. Generally, smaller metal particles or clusters have higher specific surface area and more exposed active sites than larger ones. However, too small metal particles may suffer from sintering or encapsulation by the zeolite during the reaction, leading to loss of activity and selectivity. Therefore, controlling the size and dispersion of the metal species within a suitable range is essential to optimize their catalytic behavior. Typically, Xu et al. revealed the design and development of Pt clusters localized at the Sn single-sites in the zeolitic framework. They found that strong interaction between the Pt cluster and Sn-zeolite species positively increased the homogenous dispersion of Pt species and improved their resistance to sintering under harsh reaction condition [26]. With optimized Sn content, Pt-Sn2.00/Sn-Beta catalysts exhibited high catalytic performance for propane dehydrogenation with around 100% propylene selectivity and a low deactivation rate of 0.006 h − 1 at 570°C. In addition, the location of the metal species within the zeolite structure is another important factor that affects the dehydrogenation performance of catalysts. Metal species can be located on the external surface, in the micropores, or in the mesopores of the zeolite support, depending on the synthesis method and conditions. The location of the metal species determines their interaction with the zeolite framework and acidity, as well as their exposure to the reactants and products. Intuitively, metal species located on the external surface or in the mesopores are expected to have higher activity than those located in the micropores, as they have lower diffusion resistance and lower chances for coke formation. However, metal species located on the external surface or in the mesopores may also have lower stability than those located in the micropores, as they are more prone to sintering or leaching during the reaction. Therefore, balancing the trade-off between activity and stability is a key challenge for designing efficient metal/zeolite catalysts.
Interestingly, to resolve the critical challenge of catalyst deactivation due to sintering, controlled encapsulation of the active phase appears to be a promising strategy. Typically, Wang et al. reported that dealumination of the H-beta support can ensure stable confinement of the Sn species in Si-beta framework. The post-synthesis strategy consequently provided adequate stabilization of ultra-small Pt nanoclusters due to the strong Pt–Sn interactions [27]. Moreover, the modulation of zeolite confinement effect and stabilization of the promoter metal has been demonstrated for Pt-Cu supported in silicalite-1 (S-1) [22]. Most recently, Qu et al. utilized a one-pot ligand-protected direct H2 reduction synthetic protocol and developed a series of ultrasmall Pt-Zn clusters with a trace amount of Pt (40–180 ppm) encaged in silicalite-1(S-1). The work demonstrated dual-advantage of designing efficient zeolite supported Pt-based catalysts via confinement effect of zeolites and efficient noble metal utilization in PDH reactions [28]. The degeneration of the vital Pt-Sn interaction and the subsequent spatial separation of Pt and Sn species was observed on spent Pt–Sn/Si-beta catalyst, and it was attributed to the obvious catalytic deactivation observed during oxidative dehydrogenation of propane [29]. Besides, the acidity of the zeolite support can affect the interaction between the metal species and the zeolite framework, as well as the coke formation and removal during the reaction. Generally, moderate acidity is beneficial for enhancing the activity and stability of metal/zeolite catalysts by providing additional active sites and facilitating the regeneration of the catalyst. The presence of moderate acid sites (in form of silanol groups) on the zeolite support coupled with availability of framework promoter metal (such as Sn, Cu, and In) sites can synergistically function as anchoring sites for Pt species, thereby resulting in enhanced Pt dispersion [16].This is in addition to the contribution from the geometric constraints aided by the zeolite micropores. However, too high or too low acidity may have negative effects on the performance of the catalyst by causing excessive coke formation or weakening the metal-support interaction, respectively. Moreover, it was found that modulation of Si/Al ratio could have significant impact on the distribution of framework Al and on the rates of dehydrogenation reaction because the dehydrogenation pathway has stronger preference to occur at channel intersections relative to cracking [30]. Therefore, tuning the acidity of the zeolite support by various methods, such as ion exchange, dealumination, or incorporation of heteroatoms, is an effective way to optimize the catalytic behavior of metal/zeolite catalysts.
The porosity and morphology of the zeolite support can affect the diffusion and transport of the reactants and products within the catalyst, as well as the accessibility and distribution of the metal species. Generally, hierarchical zeolites with both micropores and mesopores have higher activity and stability than conventional zeolites with only micropores, as they have lower diffusion resistance and higher metal dispersion. Therefore, creating hierarchical porosity in the zeolite support by various methods, such as templating, desilication, or dealumination, is an effective way to improve the performance of metal/zeolite catalysts. Beside porosity, the morphology of the zeolite support can also affect the performance of metal/zeolite catalysts by influencing their surface area, shape selectivity, and hydrothermal stability. Generally, nanosized or shaped zeolites have higher activity and stability than bulk or spherical zeolites, as they have higher surface area, lower diffusion resistance, and higher mechanical strength [31]. Therefore, controlling the porosity morphology of the zeolite support by various methods, such as hydrothermal synthesis, crystallization, or post-treatment, is an effective way to improve the performance of metal/zeolite catalysts [15,32].
In summary, despite being promising candidates, the metal/zeolite catalysts for light hydrocarbons dehydrogenation show a complex structure-activity relationship that depends on multiple factors. These factors include the type, size, dispersion, and location of the metal species, as well as the acidity, porosity, and morphology of the zeolite support. The form and distribution of metals play a crucial role in determining the activity, selectivity, and stability of these catalysts. Solid-state NMR (SSNMR) is a powerful technique for exploring the structure and property of metal active sites in metal/zeolite catalysts, as well as the host-guest interactions in zeolite catalysis. By combining SSNMR with other characterization methods and theoretical calculations, it is possible to gain mechanistic insights into dehydrogenation reactions on metal/zeolite catalysts. However, there are still some challenges and prospects for further improving their performance and sustainability. For instance, developing novel synthesis methods to control the size, dispersion, and location of metal species within narrow ranges; exploring new metal combinations or compositions to enhance the synergistic effects between different metals; tuning the acidity of zeolite supports by incorporating heteroatoms or modifying with additives; creating hierarchical porosity in zeolite supports by using green or mild methods; controlling the morphology of zeolite supports by using shape-directing agents or post-treatments; investigating the reaction kinetics and dynamics of dehydrogenation reactions over metal/zeolite catalysts by using advanced characterization techniques; optimizing the reaction conditions and engineering aspects of dehydrogenation processes by using mathematical modeling or simulation tools. These efforts will contribute to the development of more efficient and stable metal/zeolite catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. Notably, confinement or controlled encapsulation of the active phase nanoclusters appears to be a frontier concept in circumventing the challenges related to catalyst deactivation due to sintering [33].
2.3. Thermodynamics of tandem DDH with SHC
The conversion per pass in DDH processes are thermodynamically constrained due to its strong endothermic nature coupled with generated
gas. To realize high conversions that are industrially relevant, Le Chatelier's principle demands operating the processes at higher temperatures (typically around 550–750 °C) and lower feed pressure (1 bar) [13]. The high temperature required to reach acceptable conversion levels severely affects the olefin selectivity, because, undesired thermal cracking reactions prompted by deep dehydrogenation leading to coke formation are significantly favored [34]. This will require periodic burning of the deposited coke in order to regenerate the available active sites. Alternatively, selective removal/combustion of the generated
can provide an effective strategy to drive the equilibrium forward and break the thermodynamic constraint. The selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) is highly exothermic (
Thus, incorporation of the SHC with DDH not only stand to improve the conversion of the DDH process but also potentially offset the intensive energy requirement of the process [35]. Fig. 3 shows the variation in DDH equilibrium conversions of three hydrocarbon feeds (HCs) (ethane, n-butane, and ethylbenzene) when SHC was introduced. Undesired reactions such as CC cleavage, formation of COx product, and solid carbon formation were not considered in the simulation. Obviously, for all the feeds, significant improvement in conversion level was achieved when SHC was introduced via increasing the oxygen to hydrocarbon ratio (O2/HC). Typically, at 825 K, DDH conversion for ethane feed was less than 10%, and it jumped to approximately 100% conversion at O2/HC= 0.5. Fig. 4 depicts the variation in the equilibrium conversion when possibility of COx formation was considered. Comparison of Fig. 3 and Fig. 4 reveals that less improvement in conversion rates was achievable when the hydrocarbon feeds or the generated olefins are partly oxidized to COx. Most importantly, formation of COx products severely affects olefin selectivity, especially at higher O2/HC ratios. Overall, the thermodynamic simulation reveals that adequate tradeoff between conversion and olefin selectivity or decoupling the complex interplay between them is indispensable to realize net positive advantage when DDH is integrated with SHC. For around three decades, it has remained a grand challenge to development efficient catalysts that would enable effective in situ selective hydrogen combustion at high catalytic rate in the presence of hydrocarbon mixture [36].
Download : Download high-res image (526KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Equilibrium conversion of direct dehydrogenation (DDH) and the improvement achievable when selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) is introduced for (a) Ethane (b) n.-Butane (c) Ethylbenzene. The thermodynamic calculations were performed with Aspen Plus ® software via Gibbs free energy minimization procedure at 1 bar (total pressure) without any diluent. No cracking reactions (CC cleavage), overoxidation, and possibility solid carbon formation were considered. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Download : Download high-res image (958KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Equilibrium conversion and olefin selectivity of direct dehydrogenation (DDH) and the improvement achievable when selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) is introduced for (a & b) Ethane (c & d) n-Butane (e & f) Ethylbenzene. Possibility of overoxidation reactions to produce COx was considered. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
3. Integrating direct dehydrogenation (DDH) with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC)
The direct dehydrogenation (DDH) of C1C4 alkanes as an on-purpose production route for olefins (
) is thermodynamically constrained in terms of conversion [37]. The consumption of the produced
via coupling a following SHC reaction step can favourably controls the reaction equilibrium and enable enhanced catalytic performance. Fig. 5 depicts the integration of the DDH with SHC, and the heat released by the SHC reaction can offset the external heat requirement of the process. The attempt to integrate direct dehydrogenation (DDH) of light alkanes with selective combustion of hydrogen (SHC) to shift the equilibrium for better conversion at moderate temperatures started for more than three decades [36,38]. Notably, a lot of the researches targeting the development of efficient SHC catalysts usually conduct simulation experiments with a predefined mixture (mimicking effluents from DDH experiment or a particular DDH equilibrium composition) of paraffin (
), their corresponding olefins (
, and hydrogen. Sometimes, molecular O2 supplied (occasionally from air) or lattice oxygens of metal oxides are utilized to achieve the combustion. The selectivity to SHC (otherwise called O2 selectivity over water) and H2 conversion are defined by Eqs. (9), 10 and 11. Rothenberg et al. have provided useful discussions on the selectivity calculations, where they pointed out that all possible side reactions must be taken to account [39]. Additionally, Liu et al. have discussed other important metrics such as ratio of
to
which could obviously indicate instances of high H2 removal and low olefin loss [40].
(9)
(10)
(11)
Download : Download high-res image (215KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Scheme depicting dehydrogenation equilibrium (top) and integration of direct dehydrogenation of alkanes (DDH) with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) (bottom) [39]. The approach enables shifting the equilibrium of the process to realize higher per-pass conversion coupled with offsetting of the external heat requirement.
In the following subsections, we attempt to discuss the various alternatives available in the literature for integrating DDH with SHC. There are some informative reviews that discussed some aspects of the integration of DDH with SHC [3,13]. The discussion will be focused on catalyst design, however, it should be noted that advances in reactor design and development are indispensable in order to significantly promote commercialization and industrialization of the process [41]. In the past, Zeeshan has elaborated on the synergy between the two components in addressing the external heat requirement of the DDH process [42]. Besides, the design of efficient heat-generating materials such Cu/γ-Al2O3 has been explored to augment the external heat input of the DDH processes [43]. Inspiringly, integrating DDH with SHC generally affords the unique advantage to operate the process under autothermal operation [44,45].
3.1. Application of redox oxides in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) mode
Over the decades, the exploitation of integrated redox oxide catalysts with high capacity for selective lattice oxygen has been investigated for coupling DDH and SHC via oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) mode over metal oxide catalysts [46]. The ODH reactions are facilitated by the framework oxygen of the oxide to generate the olefins and simultaneously achieve the SHC via a seemingly single step
. The type of the lattice oxygen critically affects the selectivity of the process, and nucleophilic oxygen species (electron-rich) are generally considered as highly selective, while their electrophilic counterparts (electron-deficient) preferentially favor overoxidation of hydrocarbon feed and generated olefins [6]. Our group has a good amount of work on the oxidative dehydrogenation alkanes using lattice oxygens of metal oxides [47], [48], [49]. The lattice oxygens are consumed during the process, thus would require replenishing in a continuous or cyclic mode. Fig. 6a depicts the oxydehydrogenation under co-feeding mode with alkane feed and O2(air) to realize continuous in situ regeneration of depleted lattice oxygens. Recently, there is significant interest in utilizing CO2 as a soft oxidant to realize the in situ site generation in co-feeding mode [5,50]. Similarly, Fig. 6b shows the incorporation of CLC (chemical looping combustion) to provide cyclic regeneration of the lattice oxygen sites for stable catalytic performance. Among the early studies that utilized the co-feeding mode are the works of Hung and Hung using K- promoted V-Mg-O catalysts [36], and Stern and Grasselli using single and binary metal molybdates systems [51].
Download : Download high-res image (534KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Scheme depicting coupling DDH with SHC over integrated redox catalyst via (a) Co-feeding in oxydehydrogenation mode (b) Chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation mode (c) temperature range for SHC performance (at ∼ 40 mmol H2/kg-cats rate and 95% SHC selectivity) for six redox catalysts. Depending on the nature of the catalyst, controlled promotion with Na2WO4 results in significant expansion of the range to overlap with typical DDH operating temperature [52]. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
In recent times, there is intensified effort targeted towards development of excellent redox catalysts (as oxygen carriers) such as Li-promoted LaxSr2−xFeO4−δ [53], Na2WO4/CaMn0.9Fe0.1O3 [54] and Na2WO4/CuMn2O4 [55] to enable olefins production via integrated CLCODH configuration. The integrated redox oxides were fabricated with tuned core-shell morphology, and the design strategy presents a promising methodology for development of metal oxide systems with high stable oxygen donation capacity at moderate temperatures. Again, beside the use of integrated redox catalysts, another alternative of integrating CLC to enable SHC is via development of separate DDH and SHC catalysts and utilize them either in a mixed bed or configured in sequential layered loading in a single reactor. In this approach, developed SHC are targeted to have high H2 activity and high SHC selectivity over wide range of operating temperatures to closely overlap with typical DDH temperatures.
Li et al. have exemplified this strategy, and the authors revealed that controlled promotion of Mg6MnO8, SrMnO3, CaMnO3 redox SHC catalysts with Na2WO4 effectively improved their SHC selectivity and equally promoted their respective lattice oxygen donation at wider temperature ranges, as depicted on Fig. 6c [52]. In a typical experiment at 650 °C, when Na2WO4/CaMnO3 redox SHC was placed downstream an ethane DDH catalyst (Cr2O3/Al2O3), around 84% of H2 conversion was realized with less than 2% COx yield. The exploitation of low-cost and less toxic metals such Mn to develop efficient redox oxides clearly demonstrate more prospect in this approach [56]. Obviously, CLCODH presents a highly promising alternative of coupling DDH and SHC to realize intensified olefin production from light alkanes. Most recently, Dudek and Li have provided a critical review that discussed the concept in terms of catalyst design and reactor development extensively [8].
3.2. Tandem catalysis to couple DDH and SHC
Tandem catalysis could be exploited to integrate direct dehydrogenation of alkanes (DDH) with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC). Fig. 7a depicts the tandem sequential coupling of DDH with SHC over catalytically distinct active components via generated hydrogen intermediates. The active components responsible for DDH and SHC can be placed in multi-stage reactors, cascade-beds/mixed bed, or stabilized on integrated tandem catalysts, corresponding to macroscale, microscale, and nanoscale proximity, respectively. Typically, conduction of the DDH in membrane reactors to enable selective removal of the
, integration of chemical looping for selective
combustion, utilizing multi-stage reactors with intermittent SHC are among the major macroscale engineering strategies that could potentially improve the per-pass conversion of the process [57]. On another perspective, cascade-beds/mixed bed composed of the DDH and SHC catalysts could be integrated in a single reactor vessel to enable the coupling of the DDH and SHC reactions. However, the approach lacks the flexibility in modulating the operating conditions (especially temperature) of the individual DDH and SHC reactions independently. To further benefit from possible synergistic interactions, the distinct active components may be integrated into a single tandem catalyst with the requisite bifunctionality to sequentially mediate the DDH and SHC reactions. This may potentially enable the translation of the macroscale and microscale process intensification concepts at a nanoscale, as depicted on Fig. 7b. As depicted on Fig. 7a, the overall rate would be dependent on the rate of the individual DDH and SHC steps on the respective sites and the rate of mass transport of the intermediates via spillover or diffusion.
Download : Download high-res image (571KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. (a) Scheme depicting dehydrogenation of short chain alkanes to olefins coupled SHC over catalytically distinct active components. (b) Scheme illustrating process intensification at various scales, with tandem catalysis opening a new alternative to translate macroscale engineering concepts at nanoscale.
3.2.1. Design of integrated tandem catalysts
Obviously, the approach of utilizing integrated tandem catalysts could be catalytically more challenging, because, tuning the selectivity of the process demands precise control of the spatiotemporal interaction of the feed and intermediates (olefins and hydrogen species) with the SHC sites to limit the chances of excessive combustion of the alkane feed and the generated olefins. To realize an efficient catalyst that will drive the tandem DDH with SHC at high catalytic rate coupled with excellent olefin selectivity, unique design requirements must be considered. These include exercising effective control on the (1) spatial distribution of sites (2) regulating proximity of sites. (3) compatibility of sites (4) pore/cavity architecture. Fig. 8 depicts the various possible ways to integrate the DDH and SHC active components. The demand for controlled integration of the DDH and SHC active components in a predefined sequence is to enable precise regulation of the exposure of the distinct active sites to the alkane feed, generated olefins and hydrogen species. Typically, catalysts composed of metal oxide [38,56] or precious metals clusters [58] are known to be highly efficient in facilitating SHC, and these active components can be rationally encapsulated within the pore structures of zeolites to allow selective access to hydrogen species to combust in situ. Obviously, such restricted reaction environment may not be achievable when the zeolite (as DDH catalyst) is physically mixed with SHC catalyst via granule-stacking, mortar grinding or ball milling strategies.
Download : Download high-res image (587KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Scheme depicting the various alternatives to integrate the DDH and SHC catalysts.
As depicted on Fig. 8, the physical mixing strategies can enable effective control on the proximity of active sites, however, precise control over the spatial distribution of sites cannot be exercised. The demand for adequate proximity between the DDH and SHC sites is to ensure rapid transport of the generated hydrogen intermediates and to ensure that they are combusted in-situ before they escape to the bulk gas phase. In tandem catalysis, depending on the proximity of the sites and nature of the catalysts, intermediates can be transported by spillover mechanism [59]. Notably, designing tandem catalysts in core-shell configurations (left-end scheme depicted on Fig. 8) can offer high flexibility to effectively implement site sequencing and site proximity design requirements, and provide restricted reaction environment to mediate multiple reaction steps [60]. Moreover, some feature of the core-shell construction can be extensively modulated, including the composition and chemical characteristics of shell and core, number, structure and wall thickness of shell, the void spaces to enable nanoconfinement of intermediate, single/multiple core design and functionalization of the layers with silica or other materials to endow resistance against in situ generated chemical e.g. water etc [61], [62], [63]. All these will have impact on the overall catalytic activity and product selectivity.
Notably, another important factor in the design aspect of tandem catalysts is the requirement to ensure adequate compatibility among the DDH sites and SHC sites. Typically, in the quest to realize more close contact amongst the active species of some metal oxide/zeolite systems such as In2O3/ZSM-5 and ZnO/H-ZSM-5, the integrated catalysts derived via grinding technique instead of granule-stacking were found to be highly susceptible to deactivation during tandem CO2 hydrogenation to olefins [64,65]. This was majorly due to thermomigration of the metal ions and their subsequent neutralization of the Brønsted acid sites (especially the strong ones) via induced solid ion-exchange reaction. Moreover, similar phenomenon has been observed over Cr2O3/H-ZSM-5 [65] and Cr2O3 /H-ZSM-5@S-1 [66] tandem catalysts, even though it was beneficial to the particular tandem reaction. In summary, to ensure compatibility of sites in tandem catalyst design, it is neccessary to balance the impact of sites proximity in triggering potential interactions among the active constituentsunder harsh condition. Thus, adequate compatibility of sites most be ensured when integrating active components responsible for DDH and those for SHC to realize an integrated catalyst that will facilitate the tandem process. This is to avoid possible shut down of the bifunctionality of the tandem catalyst which is critical for stable catalytic performance.
Furthermore, the generated hydrogen intermediates from the DDH reaction step are the reactants for the SHC reaction, thus, it is critical to enhance their local concentration around the SHC sites. On core-shell configured tandem catalyst, this can be secured by appropriate design of its cavity- pore construction to serve as nanoreservoir for the hydrogen intermediates and facilitates fast desorption of the generated olefins. Fang et al. investigated the influence of nano-confinement of intermediates inside nanopores during chemical transformation [67]. It was found that longer and narrower nanopores promote higher catalytic activity as a result of enhanced molecular transport and improved reaction kinetics. Besides, the design of well-organized pore architecture can be utilized to develop tandem catalysts with robust resistance against deactivation by coke formation [68].
In the following section, we intend to discuss the various approaches for coupling DDH with SHC via tandem catalysis. Obviously, the literature on the topics are scarce and the research attention was more on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) utilizing lattice oxygen of metal oxides as discussed previously. Nonetheless, the recent work by Yan et al. would most probably spark interest in the tandem catalysis approach [69].
4. Routes for integrating DDH and SHC via tandem catalysis
4.1. Application of sequential reactors/beds to enable intermittent SHC
Here, multiple reactors loaded with suitable catalysts for DDH and SHC respectively, are coupled in a controlled sequence ((DDH
SHC
DDH…) to enable intermittent SHC. In single reactor configuration, cascaded bed rationally constructed with DDH and SHC catalyst materials could also be utilized. In 1998, Grasselli et al. launched this novel strategy of coupling DDH with SHC via two proposed approaches depicted on Fig. 9a and 9b [38]. The authors screened a series of metal oxides for potential application as SHC catalysts via rigorous redox experiments that involved exposure of the oxides to mixture stream of H2, propane and/or propylene. All the oxides showed preferential oxidation of H2 (in the order Bi > Sb > In) with negligible formation of COx product. Obviously, the lattice oxygen of SHC could get depleted and intermittent regeneration would be required. Co-feeding of air at deliberately limited (stoichiometric) ratio to the SHC reactor may enable continuous operation, since the lattice oxygen would be continuously replenished in situ. However, that would necessitate the use of another unit for product separation. The authors have carried out more investigations to identify stable catalyst systems for the sequential reactor configuration (Fig. 12a) [70] and mixed bed configuration (Fig. 9b) [71], typically with Pt-Sn-ZSM-5 as DDH catalyst and In2O3, WO3 and Bi2O3 as SHC catalysts. Obviously, the use of sequential reactors to achieve integration of DDH with SHC would no doubt incur big cost for the reactor system, suggesting that the mixed bed configuration may be more preferred [72].
Download : Download high-res image (340KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Scheme depicting application of (a) sequential reactors (b) mixed bed (c) cascade bed configuration to enable coupling of DDH with SHC. Adapted from ref [38].
In 2009, Kaneko et al. reported that tuning catalyst composition could contribute towards promoting sequential DDH-SHC, and they found that integrated Pt-Sn/Zn-Al-O catalyst displayed higher stable propane conversions greater than equilibrium conversions achievable for conventional dehydrogenation (DDH) at similar condition [35]. The authors achieved an optimal Sn loading at 7.5 wt% (Sn/Pt ∼2.5). Within the same time frame, the use of perovskite hollow-fiber membrane reactor has been demonstrated for integration of the DDH with SHC via multistep intermittent O2 permeation along the reactor length to achieve the SHC [73]. Obviously, researches tailored towards development of efficient catalyst that can enable desired catalytic combustion of hydrogen associated with hydrocarbons rare in recent time. The most recent is the works of Jung et al., where they investigated Rh-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst for the same application [74].
4.2. Tandem catalysis at nanoscale to couple DDH and SHC
Here, suitable catalysts for DDH and SHC are rationally integrated into a single nanostructured catalyst, with the respective active sites stabilized in a definite sequence and proximity. The concept appears to deliberately incorporate nearly all the advantages and resolves nearly all the challenges in the DDH and ODH approaches. Interestingly, extensive work has been done on the individual DDH and SHC routes in attempt to identify promising metals and metal oxides [8,75]. The tandem catalysis approach allows the DDH and SHC to be enabled on distinct active sites, with the generated H2 intermediates coupling the two routes. Enabling the DDH and SHC on distinct sites offers the flexibility to target modulation and optimization of the individual sites independently during catalyst design and synthesis. While in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) mode discussed previously, development of efficient integrated redox catalysts is constrained to target the construction of lattice oxygens that are both highly active and selective for CH activation – a task that is really challenging. Because, lattice oxygens that are highly reactive would most likely also facilitate undesirable CC cleavage and overoxidation [76], and the overall ODH performance strongly lies in capability of a catalyst to achieve rigorous conversion-selectivity tradeoff.
4.2.1. Tandem catalysis: process intensification at nanoscale
In modern chemical process industries, the process intensification is an imperative approach for improving the commercial competitiveness of processes and their environmental friendliness. This is usually achieved by enhancing the overall catalytic process performance, waste energy integration and minimizing the number of unit operations [77]. Tandem catalyst design opens new horizons in achieving process intensification at nanoscale. This allows the realization of the conventional macroscale and microscale process intensification approaches at a nanoscale. It holds prospect in prompting great revolution in the chemical and energy industry with regards to olefin production from non-oil-based feedstock. Typically, tandem catalyst design can contribute towards:
Circumventing thermodynamic constraints in DDH process.
Tandem catalysis offers a highly prospective alternative to resolve the thermodynamic limitation of the DDH and other similar processes via coupling them with selective
combustion (SHC). The single per-pass conversion of the process could be improved and its overall external heat requirement could be offset due to the high exothermicity of the SHC [35].
Resolve the demand for complex separation units.
The design and synthesis of efficient tandem catalysts can provide a more promising perspective that would enable sequential coupling of the DDH and SHC in a single reactor, rather than using staged reactors. Thus, it targets to eliminate the need for intermittent cooling and separation [78], enable process integration especially on nanoscale, cost-effectiveness and ultimately prompt a paradigm shift to greener processes in olefin production.
Feedstock sustainability.
When tandem catalysts with excellent catalytic performance are developed for coupling the DDH with SHC, it would inspire more interest to produce olefins from the large under-utilized natural gas and shale gas resources instead of the fast depleting crude oil-based feedstock.
4.2.2. Zeolite-encapsulated systems
Here, the approach involves precise confinement of SHC catalysts within the pores of zeolite materials via ion-exchange, and utilize strategies such as chemical vapor deposition (CVD) to effectively block the pore mouth to allow only selective access to H2 and O2 molecules for combustion [79]. Fig. 10 depicts a schematic illustration of the approach, where acid sites on the zeolite facilitate the CH activation to produce H2 and the corresponding olefin. The kinetic diameter of H2, O2, and water are 2.89, 3.46 and 2.65 Å, while those of ethylene and propylene are 3.90 and 4.50 Å, respectively [80]. Notably, coupling DDH with SHC over metal clusters encapsulated in zeolite pores exploits size selectivity control to limit the combustion of the hydrocarbon feed and the corresponding olefins products. The challenge lies in the precise incorporation of the SHC catalyst inside the pores, regulating the cluster growth, ensuring that the sites are adequately stabilized, regulating the pore architecture, and tuning the acid-base property of the zeolite host to enable facile olefin desorption.
Download : Download high-res image (209KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Scheme illustrating integration of DDH with SHC over zeolite-encapsulated metal cluster system. The pore size is tailored relative to the kinetic diameter of hydrogen and oxygen molecules to allow their selective access to the confined SHC catalyst for combustion. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
The various synthetic approaches that could be exploited in engineering zeolite-encapsulated metal clusters with adequately fine-tuned size-control selectivity are grouped as either top-bottom (Fig. 11a) or bottom-top approach (Fig. 11c) [81]. The top-bottom approaches usually involve ion-exchange or impregnation protocols to directly deposit metal clusters into already synthesized zeolite frameworks. The zeolites are required to have large ion-exchange capacity (related to Al content) and regulated pore size. Notably, these post-modification strategies usually ensue metal clusters distribution that are extremely random and uneven, coupled with high susceptibility of depositing them on the external surfaces outside the pore channels [82]. Most recently, Zhao et al. developed a novel template-guidance synthetic approach to alleviate the problem of bulk metal existence on the outside pore channels [81], as depicted on Figure11b. In the strategy, templates of as-synthesized samples are partially leached with acids instead of employing calcination.
Download : Download high-res image (810KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Schematic illustration of various synthetic routes to develop encapsulated metal clusters (a) top-bottom approach (b) template-guidance approach, where metal ions are guided into the channels via electrostatic interactions (c) bottom-top approach [81]. (d) DDH performance (in TOF) of Pt@LTA catalysts benchmarked with Pt/SiO2, aimed to probe degree of Pt encapsulation [83] (e) SHC performance (O2 conversion (X, red), O2 selectivity over H2O (S, blue), accumulated coke (C, black) on spent catalysts) at high propene concentration (C3H6/C3H8/H2/O2 = 20/12/4/1 @ 823 K) for 25 h time on stream [83]. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Rationally, transport channels for the metal ions are engineered and residual positively charged template (such as tetraethylammonium hydroxide) can enable successful anchoring of the negatively charged metal precursor via electrostatic interaction, without the need for organic ligands. Controlled decomposition of the template agents via direct H2 reduction results in uniformly encapsulated subnanometric metal clusters on the intersectional sites [81]. On another perspective, bottom-top approaches especially via one-pot synthetic routes provide another alternative to effectively avoid the challenge of metal agglomeration outside pore channels (Fig. 11c). It involves controlled introduction of ligand-stabilized metal precursors to ensue vital metal-zeolite interactions during zeolite framework synthesis. Such interactions can potentially limit the aggregation of the metals. Most recently, Chen et al. have provided an insightful review on strategies of confining sub-nanometric metal particles in zeolites and the related challenges [82]
In 2018, Shan et al. studied the design of Pt-based metal cluster encapsulated in LTA zeolite (Pt@NaA) from ligand-stabilized platinum precursors via hydrothermal synthesis strategy [83]. Two other catalysts (Pt@CaA, Pt@KA) were also derived via ion-exchange of the Pt@NaA. The authors utilized DDH as a simulated reaction to probe the grade of Pt confines and the low TOF of the samples (depicted on Fig. 11d) relative to Pt/SiO2 (derived via incipient wetness impregnation) indicates that adequate confinement was achieved. Again, the SHC performance of the catalysts was probed by exposing them to a hydrocarbon mixture with and without propylene, and significantly lower O2 selectivity over water was observed in the former. This suggest that possible propene adsorption at por interior channels or external surfaces limited the diffusion of hydrogen and oxygen. Insightfully, the authors utilized additional incorporation of alkali and alkali earth metals (Na, K, Ca) to simultaneously regulate the pores of the zeolite host and its surface chemistry. Consequently, the additionally modified catalysts displayed superior SHC performance coupled with improved coke resistance when exposed to propene-rich mixture [83], as depicted on Fig. 11e.
Li et al. probed the influence of morphology and the spreading of Pt aggregates on the SHC performance of series of Pt/A-zeolite (3A, 4A, 5A) [40]. The catalysts were derived via incipient wetness impregnation technique. The authors observed that increase in Pt loading (0.1 −2 wt.%) led to decrease and increase in the dispersion of the Pt and size of clusters, respectively. Moreover, despite the possibility of confinement of the Pt clusters inside the pore channel (highlighted from their CO adsorption experiments), the H2 combustion may have overwhelmingly occurred on the external surface of 3A and 4A compared to 5A. Because, the extremely lower BET surface area observed for the former catalysts strongly suggest that N2 could not access their pore channels, and the diameters of N2 (0.364 nm) and O2 (0.346 nm) are similar. Nonetheless, at high temperature (> 300 °C), better H2 combustion and lower hydrocarbon conversions were realized over 3A, especially at 0.5 wt.%, suggesting that the pore size of the A-zeolites was not crucial in the SHC performance.
“In 2021, Wang et al. investigated rational development of a zeolite-encapsulated catalyst that efficiently limited the over-oxidation pathways via construction of dual active sites that spatially separated the dehydrogenation and oxidation steps [84]. The authors utilized HY zeolite, which has acid sites, a 3D pore structure, and supercages and effectively confined NiO clusters. The HY zeolite gave rise to Ni2+ Lewis acid sites (LAS) and NiO nanoclusters confined in the framework. The Ni2+ LAS catalyzed the CH activation thereby producing ethene and hydrogen from ethane feedstock, while the NiO nanoclusters with decreased oxygen reactivity catalyzed the selective oxidation of hydrogen (SHC) without over-oxidizing ethene. This tailored strategy realized near 100% ethene selectivity and provided a promising basis for effective tuning of selective oxidation catalysis beyond oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Despite the promising advantage that the zeolite-encapsulated systems have in enabling efficient integration of direct dehydrogenation (DDH) with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) at nanoscale over distinct active centers, there is still limited literatures the concept. The work of Wang [84] is expected to rekindle interest in the area, because the concept demonstrated is a highly prospective alternative to couple DDH and SHC at nanoscale effectively.”
4.2.3. Redox SHC catalyst interfaced with DDH catalyst
Besides the use of zeolite encapsulation, tandem catalysts for coupling DDH and SHC can be developed in another fashion. Inspiringly, suitable dehydrogenation catalysts could be precisely interfaced with SHC redox catalyst into an integrated nanostructure material to enable tandem coupling of DDH and SHC at nanoscale [69]. Here, the approach is totally different from the previously discussed ODH approach where DDH-SHC coupling is achieved over rationally constructed lattice oxygens of redox oxides. In the ODH approach, the grand challenge to achieve rigorous conversion-selectivity tradeoff can seriously set a limit to the process performances. However, the present approach is like the zeolite-encapsulated metal cluster systems - the sites for DDH and SHC are entirely different. The sites interact via the hydrogen intermediates generated from the DDH step, enabling kinetic and thermodynamic coupling of the sites [85]. Synergistic interplay among the task-specific sites could be exploited maximally to realize dramatic improvement in feed conversion at high olefin selectivity close to that achievable in DDH alone. Because, unlike in the seemingly single step ODH [7], the complex interplay especially at high temperatures between feed conversion and selectivity of olefins is inherently avoided. In this promising approach, catalyst development is realized via exploiting the unique nature of tandem catalyst design concepts that allow for deliberate manipulation of the sequence and proximity of different active sites at nanoscale, as discussed under subSection 3.2.1.
As a pioneer work, Yan et al. exemplified this approach through novel interfacing of Pt/Al2O3 (DDH catalyst) with In2O3 (SHC catalyst) into a nanostructured tandem catalyst, (Pt/Al2O3)@XIn2O3 [69]. The authors utilized atomic layer deposition (ALD) to grow the In2O3 overcoat with controlled thickness (∼ 2 nm, after 35 cycles of deposition) over the Pt/Al2O3. Controlled annealing of a catalyst with overcoat usually enables creation of pores and achieves partial restoration of lost surface area due to the ALD procedure [86]. Thus, annealing the (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 catalyst at 450 °C adequately re-exposed the Pt sites, and the catalyst is termed model 3 as depicted on Fig. 12a. Fig. 12b depicts the tandem PDH-SHC over (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3, with PDH occurring on Pt sites and SHC on the In2O3 overcoat. Remarkably, the catalyst displayed higher stable per-pass propylene yield (> 30%) compared to the maximum yields obtained from other promising ODH catalysts reported in the literature (as shown in Fig. 12c). Most importantly, the excellent performance of (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 catalyst is connected to the following implemented tandem catalyst design strategies:
(i)
The tandem PDH-SHC reactions were sequentially organized on the (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3, with the Pt sites facilitating the PDH while the In2O3 nanoscale overcoat promoted the SHC effectively. The authors reported that other nanostructures such as Pt/In2O3 or their physical mixture favoured propane combustion.
(ii)
The intimacy and the extensive interface between the Pt sites and the microporous In2O3 overcoat enabled facile surface transfer of hydrogen atoms from the former to the latter, with the reduced overcoat being rapidly re-oxidized by the gas phase O2
to ensure high stable SHC activity and minimize the occurrence of undesired overoxidation of both propane and propylene on the Pt sites. Thus, the design enabled effective spatiotemporal control over the reaction hydrogen and propylene intermediates.
(iii)
On the other hand, the initial high performances of Pt/In2O3 + Al2O3@In2O3 physical mixture (Model 1, depicted on Fig. 2a) and Pt/(Al2O3@In2O3) (Model 2, depicted on Fig. 2a) rapidly decayed with time on stream (TOS) due to Pt aggregation that caused significant loss of PDH sites. Thus, the unique nature of the porous overcoat geometry in the tandem catalyst, (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3, adequately stabilized the Pt sites without total encapsulation.
Download : Download high-res image (535KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. (a) Schematic representation of tandem catalyst models for dehydrogenation of propane to propylene (PDH) in tandem with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) [69]. (b) Tandem PDH-SHC over (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3, with PDH occurring on Pt sites and SHC on the In2O3 overcoat. The rapid re-oxidation of the reduced overcoat (In2O3-x) by the gas phase O2 ensures stable SHC activity and minimizes the occurrence of undesired combustion on the Pt site. (C) Comparison of catalytic performance of (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 at different conversions (achieved via changing WHSV−1 from 0.77 to 5.72 gC3H8−1 gcatalyst hours at 450 °C) with other reported ODH catalysts at their maximum per-pass yields. A list of all the referenced catalysts can be found in the supporting document of ref [69]. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
All the factors highlighted above clearly showed that the development of efficient tandem catalyst for a particular application not only requires suitable choice of the active components and supports, but demands integration of the multiple sites via controlled sequence and proximity in a compatible manner. Notably, the domain of the active sites for the individual reactions (DDH and SHC) should be coupled kinetically via facile transfer of the reactive hydrogen intermediates to ensure stable performance, and that is the essence of regulating the tandem spacing of the different active sites. Obviously, understanding of the transport mechanism for the reactive intermediates (hydrogen atoms) is crucial, as highlighted by Pei and Gong in their inspiring perspective on the Yan et al. paper [85], and that could reveal other important design requirements for tandem catalysts. Similarly, Monai et al. have reported a forward-looking review on propane to olefins tandem catalysis: a selective route towards light olefins production [12]. The review discussed individually the state-of-the-art advances related to PDH, propylene metathesis and offered insightful perspectives on integration of the two processes via tandem catalysis (propane to olefins, PTO). The authors discussed relevant challenges and opportunities in the area and emphasized on the critical need for intensified effort to understand the PTO process through rigorous theoretical modeling and systematic operando spectroscopy experiments. It is important to note that the research for the design and development of tandem catalysts for the nanoscale integration of DDH with SHC is also still at the early stage. However, the recent work of Yan et al. [69] holds high prospect to inspire future development in the area. For the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) route using integrated redox oxide catalysts with high capacity for selective lattice oxygen to enable the dehydrogenation (DDH and SHC) through a seemingly single step, massive research is on-going [87]. Similarly, for the direct dehydrogenation (DDH) process, its intrinsic challenges especially rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and sintering are continuously been probed, and catalysts with remarkable catalytic performances are rapidly being developed [15,37].”
5. Challenges and perspectives
The application of tandem catalysis to couple direct dehydrogenation of alkanes (DDH) with selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) may be realized at different scales. It ranges from application of multiple sequential reactors/beds to enable intermittent SHC to the use of integrated tandem catalysts that possess adequate dual-functionality. Obviously, integrated catalysts for tandem DDH with SHC are either in the form of zeolite-encapsulated systems or composed of redox SHC catalysts interfaced with DDH catalysts (especially precious metal-based). The main challenge of the zeolite-encapsulated systems lies in the precise incorporation of the SHC catalyst inside the pores, regulating the cluster growth, ensuring that the sites are adequately stabilized, regulating the pore architecture, and tuning the acid-base property of the zeolite host to enable facile olefin desorption.
The recent works of Yan et al. inspired a new perspective in enabling the tandem process via controlled interfacing of suitable redox oxide SHC catalyst with Pt-based DDH catalyst. As it has been highlighted, the approach requires precise implementation of unique catalyst design requirements that include ensuring effective site sequencing and site proximity. This is to exercise effective control over the spatiotemporal interaction of the reactant alkanes, generated olefins and hydrogen intermediates with the distinct sites. Obviously, this requires more diligence to implement, compared to usual modulation of catalytic features encountered in the design and development of conventional heterogeneous catalysts. Moreover, the compatibility of the distinct DDH and SHC sites particularly under severe reaction environments must be ensured to realize stable catalytic performance.
Notably, the choice of the synthetic protocol is crucial, because, the harsh synthesis condition may cause catalyst deactivation during synthesis. Typically, it was found that integrating the ZnZrO2 and SAPO-34 via hydrothermal technique prompted undesired interaction amongst species, resulting in significant deactivation of the resultant tandem catalyst [88]. To address such issue, before addition of SAPO-34, the authors confined the ZnZrO2 in Al2O3 using a co-precipitation technique [89]. The central Al2O3 layer confined the ZnZrO2 redox species and offered enhanced resistance against thermal deactivation during subsequent hydrothermal treatments. This was enabled via improvement of the interfacial properties between ZnZrO2 and SAPO-34 [89].
The core-shell design can be exploited by facile physical confinement approaches [90,91] and easy-to-use hydrothermal strategies [92], fast deployment of the design concept in the development of catalysts for tandem DDH with SHC may be predicted. Because, the core-shell design delivers alternatives to design tandem catalysts with controlled proximity and spatial segregation of their different active sites [93,94] and the design can be used to eliminate some likely site incompatibility challenges. In synopsis, the application of integrated tandem catalysts to enable the coupling of DDH with SHC is new, and the immense prospects of the approach would obviously inspire strong research interest in the area.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
Authors would like to acknowledge Interdisciplinary Research Center for Refining and Advanced Chemicals, King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia for the financial support for this work through Project # INRC2304.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
