I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


A Robust and Efficient Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst from Unexpectedly Segregated Pt2Mn Nanoparticles
Abstract
The increasing demand for short chain olefins like propene for plastics production and the availability of shale gas make the development of highly performing propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts, robust toward industrially applied harsh regeneration conditions, a highly important field of research. A combination of surface organometallic chemistry and thermolytic molecular precursor approach was used to prepare a nanometric, bimetallic PtMn material (3 wt % Pt, 1.3 wt % Mn) supported on silica via consecutive grafting of a Mn and Pt precursor on surface OH groups present on the support surface, followed by a treatment under a H2 flow at high temperature. The material exhibits a 70% fraction of the overall Mn as MnII single sites on the support surface; the remaining Mn is incorporated in segregated Pt2Mn nanoparticles. The material shows great performance in PDH reaction with a low deactivation rate. In particular, it shows outstanding robustness during repeated regeneration cycles, with conversion and selectivity stabilizing at ca. 37 and 98%, respectively. Notably, a material with a lower Pt loading of only 0.05 wt % shows an outstanding catalytic performanceinitial productivity of 4523 gC3H6/gPt h and an extremely low kd of 0.003 h1 under a partial pressure of H2, which are among the highest reported productivities. A combined in situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopy, electron paramagnetic resonance, and metadynamics at the density functional theory level study could show that the strong interaction between the MnII-decorated support and the unexpectedly segregated Pt2Mn particles is most likely responsible for the outstanding performance of the investigated materials.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Some of the most important classes of heterogeneous catalysts are based on bimetallic systems, as they facilitate numerous selective transformations, some of them being operated on a megaton scale in the petrochemical industry and enabling for instance the production of short-chain olefins as building blocks for polymers and bulk chemicals. (1) In that context, non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has gained renewed interest in recent years as an alternative propene production route due to a rising propene demand and its current, decreasing production via classical cracking routes as a result of changes in refinery technology. (14) The Oleflex process, based on an alumina-supported PtSn system, was one of the first industrially implemented catalysts for PDH in the 1990s to produce propene. (1) Since then, Pt-based bi- and multi-metallic materials have been among the most investigated systems for this transformation. The general drawback of PDH is its highly endothermic nature (ΔH2980 = 124.3 kJ mol1); this thermodynamic limitation requires high reaction temperatures (550750 C) to reach reasonable conversion levels. Such harsh reaction conditions favor sintering of the catalytically active phase and coke formation via hydrocarbon cracking even for advanced, multi-metallic materials. Both events lead to catalyst deactivation which is combated by constant regeneration cycles. (1,4,5) Some regeneration strategies involve short PDH cycles followed by short flow of different gassesoxidation in air (Pt dispersion and coke removal; sometimes oxychlorination to improve Pt dispersion) and reduction with H2 (reactivation of the active phase)which is repeated over years. (4) Therefore, the search for catalysts exhibiting high catalytic performances, combined with robustness toward repeated regeneration cycles, is of major importance for further improving PDH catalysts.
In order to find suitable materials, research efforts have concentrated on the use of post transition metal or main group element promoters like Zn, (613) B, (14,15) Ga, (1620) In, (2123) and Sn (1,5,24) in combination with varying supports. All these promoters are known to drastically increase the PDH performance compared to monometallic Pt by increasing both selectivity and stability. All of these promoters have been heavily investigated, and the corresponding materials were analyzed and characterized in great detail. While In and Zn are not utilized in industries, Sn and, more recently, Ga promoters are both already applied in industrial processes. (17,25) The promoters can fulfill several roles: (i) neutralization of the support acidity that usually leads to cracking side reactions, (ii) suppression of metal sintering, and (iii) minimization of cracking by avoiding deep hydrogenolysis and by easing desorption of the olefinic product due to alloy formation of Pt with the promoter element (site isolation). Besides these classical promoter elements, there are significantly fewer reports regarding the use of transition-metal elements as promoters for PDH. While early 3d transition metals usually do not easily form alloyed phases with Pt and are therefore probably not suitable as PDH catalysts, later transition metals can offer possible alternatives; a noteworthy reported example is PtMn, which displays promising catalytic performance in PDH. (26,27) These improved catalytic performances have been proposed to be related to the formation of different active phases, from Pt/Pt3Mn core/shell structured nanoparticles to well-defined Pt3Mn and PtMn3 alloys as well as PtxMny with different PtMn ratios.
Our group has recently introduced a methodology based on surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) (2831) and thermolytic molecular precursor (TMP) (32) approaches to generate bimetallic systems with tailored interfaces and compositions. (33,34) In these systems, SiO2 was preferentially used because it is a high-surface-area, non-reducible, thermally stable support with no Lewis and low Brnsted acidity and no strong metalsupport interaction. SiO2 is thus ideally suited to study structureproperty relationships of surface species, avoiding interference from the support. This SOMC/TMP approach combined with detailed spectroscopicincluding X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and infrared spectroscopy (IR)and computational studiesusing in particular metadynamics (MTD) at the density-functional theory (DFT) level (35)has enabled the development of PtGa-based PDH catalysts with high catalytic performances. Such analysis helped to derive structureperformance relationships, tracing back the catalytic performance to (i) Pt site isolation at the nanoparticle surface and (ii) increased dynamics of Pt sites in the alloyed nanoparticles. While Ga itself exhibits catalytic activity in the PDH reaction, (3638) we proposed that its main role in the PtGa system is the improvement of the stability of PtGa alloyed nanoparticles due to strong interaction with GaIII surface sites. (35) Considering the promising catalytic performances of recently reported PtMn systems discussed above and the need to constantly improve our understanding of PDH catalysts, we here explored the generation of tailored PtMn bimetallic systems using the SOMC/TMP approach in combination with MTD at the DFT level. First, we determined the composition of such particles via X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and elemental analysis (EA). In a second step, we utilize these data to develop a simple model based on exploration of possible structures of PtMn nanoparticles by MTD. Such a model proved useful to detect spatial separation of Pt and Mn inside the particle and to explain experimental CO adsorption Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) results. In order to refine the structure derived from experimental extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS), we further improve this simple model by incorporating the support, which improved the fit between computationally and experimentally derived coordination numbers (CNs).
In detail, using a combined experimentalincluding CO adsorption FTIR, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), and XAS among othersand computational approach, we were able to develop a robust PtMn PDH catalyst (PtMn/SiO2, 2.97wt % Pt, 1.34 wt % Mn), based on Pt2Mn nanoparticles supported on MnII-doped silica. Decreasing Pt loading from 3.0 to 0.05 wt % (Pt(0.05)Mn/SiO2, 1.38 wt % Mn) drastically improved the productivity; co-feeding H2 additionally further increased the stability compared to the higher Pt loading material. Finally, consecutive fast regeneration cycles on the high loading PtMn catalyst revealed great robustness and unchanged high selectivity. The detailed spectroscopic investigations augmented with MTD on the high Pt-loading catalyst reveal that this silica-supported PtMn material is based on segregated Pt2Mn nanoparticles where reduced Mn accumulates at the interface between the Pt rich inner part of the particles and the oxide surface, interacting with additional MnII sites present at the silica support surface.
2. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
We first prepared the silica-supported PtMn material via a two-step SOMC/TMP process (Figure 1A) (6,16) from highly dispersed Mn sites on SiO2. (39) The Mn single sites, MnII/SiO2, prepared via SOMC from [Mn(OSi(OtBu)3)2]2 and SiO2700 (see the Supporting Information for experimental details) contain MnII sites (0.73 Mn/nm2, 1.37 wt % Mn) free of organic ligands along with isolated surface OH groups (ca. 1 OH/nm2). (39) Then, Pt was introduced by grafting [Pt(OSi(OtBu)3)2(COD)] (0.26 mmol Pt/g SiO2) (40,41) (COD = 1,5-cyclooctadiene) onto the surface OH groups of MnII/SiO2, yielding a materialPtII_MnII/SiO2that was then submitted to a flow of H2 at 600 C leading to the formation of PtMn/SiO2. The final material is obtained as a black solid (2.97 wt % Pt and 1.34 wt % Mn; 1:1.6 (Pt:Mn/mol:mol)), indicating particle formation.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (A) Synthetic approach for PtMn/SiO2 resulting in segregated Pt2Mn nanoparticles in strong interaction with MnII sites at the support surface. (B) Representative STEM micrograph of PtMn/SiO2 and corresponding particle size distribution (PSD) (inset). (C) Background-subtracted FTIR spectra of adsorbed 12CO and 13CO on PtMn/SiO2; insert shows fitting of the two bands for 12CO. (D) 12CO adsorption FTIR spectra of MnII/SiO2, Pt/SiO2, and PtMn/SiO2 showing the area of expected adsorption on Lewis acidic sites; note that the spectra are normalized to the SiO bending vibrational frequency around 1865 cm1 to allow for intensity comparison. The PtMn/SiO2 intensity needed to be increased 5 fold for better visibility, indicating minor adsorption of CO molecules on PtMn/SiO2 compared to MnII/SiO2.
HAADF-STEM images of PtMn/SiO2 evidence the formation of narrowly distributed and well-dispersed, nanosized particles (1.0  0.3 nm) along with smaller clusters as well as a small minority of single Pt atoms on the support surface (Figure 1B and Supporting Information Figure S5). Note that a monometallic Pt/SiO2 material, prepared via the same approach, shows considerably larger particles and broader PSD of 2.0  0.8 nm, already indicating a significant effect of Mn on the nanoparticle structure (Supporting Information Figure S2). To obtain information about the surface state of these nanoparticles, FTIR spectra of a PtMn/SiO2 pellet exposed to 12CO and 13CO (around 10 mg, 120 mbar) were recorded. The subtraction of a spectrum acquired after exposure to 12CO shows two major vibrational bands centered at 2066 and 2026 cm1 along with a very weak band around 1844 cm1 (Figure 1C, Supporting Information Figures S14 and S15). The two bands at higher wavenumbers are red-shifted by 18 and 65 cm1 compared to monometallic Pt particles supported on SiO2 (2084 cm1, Figure S12), indicating a clear change of the electronic structure of Pt. Additionally, the existence of two vibrational bands indicates more than one CO adsorption site on the particle surface. An additional vibrational band around 1844 cm1 of weak intensity can be assigned to μ2 bridging 12CO on adjacent Pt atoms. Furthermore, another weak vibrational band around 2190 cm1 (Figure 1D) is observed and can be associated with CO being adsorbed on residual MnII sites; MnII/SiO2 contacted with CO shows a band at 2194 cm1 (Figure 1D, Supporting Information Figure S13). Comparing the intensities of the features (2190 and 2194 cm1), it can be concluded that in PtMn/SiO2, only a small amount of MnII sites dispersed at the support surface exists while the majority of Mn in the sample consists of either Mn as part of the nanoparticles or MnII sites at the support interface with the nanoparticles (vide infra), therefore not being accessible for CO adsorption. Equivalently recorded 13CO adsorption spectra show a consistent red shift of around 45 cm1, in agreement with all observed vibrational frequencies resulting from adsorbed CO.
We also performed H2 and CO chemisorption studies showing very similar Qsat values for PtMn/SiO2 (2.6 mmol CO/gPt, 1.6 mmol H2/gPt) and Pt/SiO2 (2.5 mmol CO/gPt, 1.7 mmol H2/gPt) which underlines that there must be an inherent difference in the nanoparticle structure in the two systems given the particle size difference of the two materials (1 nm for PtMn/SiO2 and 2 nm for Pt/SiO2) (Figures S16 and S17 and Table S1). XPS spectra of the 2p binding energy region of Mn for MnII/SiO2 and PtMn/SiO2 show features at similar binding energies, while differences in the line shape are observed as broader and more asymmetric for the bimetallic material, which could be indicative of an additional lower energy feature associated to partial reduction of Mn. For the Pt 4f7/2 binding energy, a small shift of 0.2 eV is observed, going from Pt/SiO2 to PtMn/SiO2 accompanied by a line broadening, which could be attributed to a particle size effect as well as PtMn interaction or alloy formation. (42,43) (see Supporting Information Figures S18 and S19 for detail).
To further analyze the composition and structure of the PtMn particles as well as the chemical state of Pt and Mn on the SiO2 support, we performed an XAS study in combination with MTD calculations at the DFT level on model systems to refine the structure. First we carried out an in situ XANES analysis of PtII_MnII/SiO2 at both, the Mn K and Pt LIII-edge under a flow of H2 from room temperature to 600 C (see Supporting Information for detail). The results are depicted in Figure 2A. As seen from the Mn K edge spectra, the material before (PtII_MnII/SiO2, blue, 6546.0 eV) and after (PtMn/SiO2, pink, 6545.6 eV) temperature-programmed reduction (TPR, increase of T from RT to 600 C under a flow of H2) shows a small change in the rising edge feature, indicating partial reduction of MnII sites.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (A) XANES spectra of PtMn/SiO2 after treatment under H2 (pink) at the Mn K and Pt LIII edge and corresponding reference spectra (blue and black), indicating partial reduction of Mn and full reduction of Pt. (B) EXAFS fit of PtMn/SiO2 at the Pt LIII edge with good agreement of data and fit.
A linear combination fit (LCF) (Figures S23 and S24) of the spectrum after TPR points to a partial reduction of MnII to Mn0 by roughly 30% of the total Mn (Table 1). In contrast, analysis at the Pt LIII edge indicates full Pt reduction after TPR (Figure 2A) under the assumption that the small differences and edge energy shift from 11,564.0 to 11,564.3 eV compared to Pt foil can be attributed to PtMn interaction and/or a particle size effect. (44) Combination of the data of reduced Pt (100%) and Mn (30%) with EA results, allows us to evaluate the average ratio of reduced Pt and Mn in the nanoparticleswhich is close to 2:1 (PtMn) for PtII_MnII/SiO2 after TPR (Table 1). Hence, the data indicate the formation of nanoparticles with an average composition close to Pt2Mn in PtMn/SiO2 (EXAFS and Figure 2B will be discussed only later; vide infra).
Table 1. Presentation of LCF and EA Results and Deduced Composition of the PtMn Nanoparticles in PtMn/SiO2
element % reduced (XANES) EA [mmol M/gSiO2] M in NP [mmol/gSiO2] average Pt/Mn ratio in particles single site M on support surface [mmol/gSiO2] single site M density [M/nm2]
Mn 30% 0.244 0.073 1 0.171 0.51
Pt 100% 0.152 0.152 2 0 0
To further track the evolution of Mn in these samples as indicated by the LCF XANES analysis at the Mn K edge, we also performed an in situ electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) study of the reduction of PtII_MnII/SiO2 which indicates 34% loss of EPR active Mn speciesattributed to the reduction of MnII to Mn0in good agreement with the changes observed in XANES and the corresponding LCF (Figure S39). Additionally, following the CO IR and XANES results, we were interested to investigate whether there was a direct interaction between the PtMn nanoparticles and the remaining MnII sites at the support surface. EPR shows a clear difference between the MnII/SiO2 and PtMn/SiO2 materials (see the Supporting Information for more detail and additional spectra), namely, a strong line broadening of the bimetallic material is observed at low temperatures. At the expected mean distance between MnII centers on the order of 1 nm, dipoledipole broadening for these S = 5/2 species, (45) exchange coupling between the sites, and 55Mn hyperfine coupling are all expected to be of similar magnitude. Moreover, exchange coupling and dipoledipole coupling are distributed. In this situation, one may expect loss of the Mn hyperfine resolution for the mS = 1/2  mS = +1/2 transitions, as we observe in the spectra. Large zero-field splitting and a broad distribution of zero-field splitting due to variations in molecular geometry of the surface species may further compound such broadening. The spectral differences between MnII/SiO2 and PtMn/SiO2 are associated with a change in the distribution of these interactions, possible causes of which are a substantial change of the local structure of the MnII sites or, more likely, interaction of the MnII sites with the nanoparticles.
We then performed an EXAFS analysis of PtMn/SiO2 at the Pt LIII edge (Table 2 and Figure 2B) to confront the MTD analysis with experimental data. As can be seen from Table 2, the best fit could be obtained by inclusion of a PtPt and PtMn path supporting direct PtMn interaction. The removal of the PtMn path led to worse fits (Figure S32 and Table S5). The total CN is significantly lower than what is observed for Pt/SiO2 (Figures S31 and S33 and Tables S4 and S6), which is consistent with the presence of smaller particles for PtMn/SiO2 compared to Pt/SiO2 (compare STEM). Notably, CNs of around 5.9 (PtPt) and 1.5 (PtMn) indicate a nearest neighbor ratio of 4:1 (PtMn) in PtMn/SiO2 which is much lower than what is expected for both Pt2Mn (random alloy, face centered cubic (FCC) structure, 1:1 (PtMn) ratio) and Pt3Mn (ordered, FCC structure, 2:1 (PtMn) ratio), indicating spatial separation of Pt and Mn inside the particles just as the MTD calculation suggests. (46) This is also supported by calculating the Cowley parameter for the Pt2Mn nanoparticles (αPtMn/SiO2 = 0.39; 0.5  α  +1 for a 2:1 bulk alloy), where a value of 0.5 indicates 100% homogeneous mixing of a binary system and +1 total segregation with no interaction of the two components (see the Supporting Information for details on the calculation of the parameter). (47) It should be noted that due to a high surface to volume ratio in nanoparticles, the expected α value should generally be lower than what would be expected for its corresponding bulk material. To further understand these materials and gather information about the structure of the Pt2Mn nanoparticles, we then performed a refinement of the nanoparticle structure in vacuum using MTD at the DFT level to evaluate the interaction of Pt and Mn in these bimetallic systems. A 2:1 PtMn particle (Pt24Mn14,   0.9 nm) with a random arrangement of atomschosen based on the combined STEM, EA and LCF XANES results indicating 1 nm sized Pt2Mn nanoparticleswas first equilibrated for 2 ps in vacuum at 873 K in the canonical (NVT) ensemble. The particle structure was then studied using Pt and Mn CNs (CNMnMn, CNMnPt, and CNPtPt; see the computational details for the definition of CNs used for the MTD simulation) as collective variables, in order to ensure the efficient exploration of the possible global conformation (alloy, coreshell, etc.). During the first 12 ps of the simulation, the MnMn MTD CN increased from 4 to 6 approximately (Figure S40) while the average distance of Mn atoms to the center of mass decreased by 1 Å (Figure 3A-right). Pt and Mn rapidly segregate within the NP, leading to the formation of a coreshell like structure with Mn preferentially in the core of the particle (Figure 3A-left). The reconstructed free-energy surface bears two minima: a global minimum corresponding to the coreshell structure and a second minima approximately 9 kcal mol1 per Pt2Mn unit uphill, corresponding to a more alloyed structure, with small manganese clusters (Figure 3C-middle). This first simulation on a simple model already clearly indicates that the formation of a homogeneous PtMn alloy is not favored. The low affinity of Mn for Pt leads to segregation within the Pt2Mn nanoparticle.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (A) Nanoparticle in vacuum. LeftSnapshot of the structure of the Pt24Mn14 particle in vacuum around the energy minimum, Mn in pink, Pt in gray. RightAverage distance to the center of the particle for each element, highlighting Mn segregation. (B) Simulated CO adsorption vibrations. LeftStarting structure of the simulation of the production run of the vibrational spectrum. A CO molecule and its interaction with a neighboring Mn atom is highlighted in blue. RightSimulated vibrational spectrum (black line) and contribution of the highlighted pseudo-bridging CO to the overall spectrum (blue line), identifying the origin of the vibrational feature at 2026 cm1 in the experimental CO FTIR spectrum. (C) Nanoparticle-oxide interaction. LeftSnapshot representative of the free-energy minimum. MnII single sites are in purple, Si beige, O in red. MiddleFree-energy surfaces projected along the MnPt and MnMn CNs, for the particle in vacuum and on the support, indicating decreased MnPt and PtPt interaction for the particle at the support surface. RightMnMn, MnO CNs and Cowley parameter highlighting a segregation of Mn due to its interaction with the surface. The definition of CNs, additional free-energy surfaces, free-energy profiles, as well as videos of MTD simulations are available as Supporting Information.
Table 2. EXAFS Fit Parameters at the Pt LIII Edge for Pt/SiO2 and PtMn/SiO2a
material path nearest neighbors r [Å] σ2 [Å2] ΔE0 [eV] R factor
Pt/SiO2 PtPt 9.6  0.3 2.73  0.002 0.006  0.001 7.3  0.3 0.002
PtMn/SiO2 PtMn 1.5  0.5 2.68  0.01 0.010  0.003 3.7  0.7 0.007
PtPt 5.9  0.8 2.66  0.004 0.009  0.001
aNotation: r, scattering path length between absorber and scatterer. σ2, mean square relative displacement (DebyeWaller-factor). ΔE0, internal energy alignment.
The structure obtained from the simple model proved furthermore useful to rationalize the experimental FTIR results of adsorbed CO at the surface of the PtMn/SiO2 material. The previously obtained coreshell Pt2Mn nanoparticle was covered with 11 CO molecules, and its configurational space was explored using MTD. In addition to the C to Pt and C to Mn CNs (CNCMn and CNCPt) used to explore the coordination modes of CO, the Pt and Mn CNs (CNMnMn, CNMnPt, and CNPtPt) were used to explore possible reorganization of the nanoparticle (Figure S45). IR spectra were computed for a series of representative structures selected along the MTD run (see Supporting Information for the selected structures and all simulated spectra). The best agreement to the experimental spectrum was obtained in the case of a distorted coreshell structure. In this structure CO is mainly coordinated to Pt but some Mn atoms are accessible at the nanoparticle surface (Figure 3B-left). The simulated spectrum shows three main bands at 1893, 2047, and 2085 cm1 (Figure 3B-right, black line). The lowest vibrational band at 1893 cm1 corresponds to the stretching frequency of μ2-bridging carbonyls on adjacent Pt atoms and the band at 2085 cm1 is related to CO adsorbed on a single platinum site. The other calculated redshifted band at 2047 cm1 is assigned to Pt carbonyls that interact weakly with neighboring Mn (Figure 3B-right, blue line), which is consistent with previous reports that proximity to other metallic sites causes a redshift of the stretching frequency of CO adsorbed on Pt. (48) To further validate this assignment, we performed harmonic frequency calculations on the [MnPtCO] fragment for various MnPtC angles (see the computational details and see the Supporting Information, Figure S53). While the MnPtC angle decreases, the interaction with Mn increases, as evidenced by a decreasing PtCO angle. In turn, the stretching frequency decreases. The results from the CO IR simulation clarify the origin of the experimentally observed vibrational features of the PtMn/SiO2 material, namely, the feature at 2026 cm1 is best assigned to CO adsorbed on Pt with Mn adjacent sites. This indicates that a portion of the interface between the Pt and Mn phases should be accessible to CO molecules.
However, while the Mn and Pt separation is qualitatively reproduced by the MTD exploration of the NP in vacuum, the Pt to Mn CNs obtained (PtMn: 3.5; PtPt: 4) are significantly too high compared to the ones obtained from the EXAFS analysis while the PtPt CNs and Cowley parameter are too low. This indicates that the spatial segregation between the Pt and Mn phases expected in vacuum is lower compared to the one observed experimentally on the silica-supported system containing residual MnII sites. We therefore further refined the structure obtained from the MTD calculations to possibly unify the computational and experimental structural analysis.
As recently demonstrated by MTD calculations for a SOMC-derived PtGa system, a strong effect of the support on the nanoparticle structure can be expected. (35) We thus investigated the role of the oxide support by building a more complex model placing the coreshell Pt2Mn particleidentified as the energetic ground state in the preceding calculation in vacuumat the surface of an amorphous dehydroxylated silica support (49) bearing 5 MnII sites (see Supporting Information for details on the construction of this oxide model). Along the simulation, the MnO MTD CN increases steadily at the expense of the MnMn and MnPt CNs, which tend to decrease along the simulation, suggesting a strong affinity of Mn0 for the oxide support (Figures 3C-right and S54). This is further supported by the distribution of the positions along the z axis: most of the manganese is located between the Pt and the oxide support (Figures 3C-left and S57). Additionally, the Mn0 located on the outer part of the particle interacts not only with the silica support (increased MnO CN number) but also with the MnII sites at the interface between particle and support.
Toward the end of the simulation, CNs as low as 2.8 for PtMn (NMnPt = 3.5) and as high as 5.0 for PtPt are found (Figure 3C-middle). This corresponds to a higher spatial separation of Pt and Mn phases compared to the vacuum NP, as further illustrated by the evolution of the Cowley parameter (Figure 3C-right), which increases over the course of the simulationfrom 0.09 to +0.04indicating an increased segregation between Pt and Mn associated with an evolution toward a structure with Mn at the surface of the Pt particle, interacting with the support surface. The interactions with the support play a critical role in explaining the segregated structure of the Pt2Mn nanoparticles. The CNs obtained from the MTD run on the more complex model are in much better agreement with the ones obtained from EXAFS analysis (NPtMn = 1.5  0.5; NPtPt = 5.9  0.8, α > 0).
Overall, experimental characterizations and the MTD simulation are pointing toward a highly segregated structure for the Pt2Mn NPs supported on MnII-decorated SiO2 with Pt on top, supported on a reduced Mn0 phase interacting with the MnII sites and oxygen on the surface (Figure 1A). This structure is in significant contrast to the ones currently proposed for PtMn systems for which homogeneous PtMn alloyed phases were suggested. The effect of the Mn-promoter also sharply contrasts with the currently reported PtGa system, which features homogeneously alloyed PtGa nanoparticles. (26,27,35) Finally, the strong affinity of the Mn for the support surface and the residual MnII sites suggests that Mn plays a key role as an anchor, which interacts strongly with both the support and the inner, Pt-rich part of the segregated Pt2Mn nanoparticlesconsistent with the changes in EPR of PtMn/SiO2 compared to MnII/SiO2which could play an important role in sintering/deactivation prevention during catalytic PDH conditions.
We then evaluated the catalytic performance of this material in PDH, exploring several conditions. The catalytic results are summarized in Table 3 (see the Supporting Information for more detail). The PtMn/SiO2 material (3 wt % Pt, 1.3 wt % Mn) shows both very good productivity (initial: 822 gC3H6/gPt h) and stability (low kd of 0.018 h1) over 60 h on stream (Figure 4A). These values greatly exceed what is obtained with pure Pt supported on SiO2 (initial: 105 gC3H6/gPt h, kd of 1.464 h1) and surpass what is observed for PtZn/SiO2 (initial: 703 gC3H6/gPt h; kd of 0.027 h1) and PtGa/SiO2 (initial: 722 gC3H6/gPt h, kd of 0.04 h1) prepared via a similar approach as well as any other PtMn system reported in literature. (6,16,26,27) It is noteworthy that a much higher initial productivity is obtained upon decreasing the Pt loading to 0.05 wt %.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (A) Conversion levels of PtMn/SiO2 (WHSV of 2246 h1) over 70 h on stream, indicating good stability of the material. (B,C) Performance (left: conversion and right: propene selectivity) of Pt/SiO2 and PtMn/SiO2 during 6 fast, consecutive regeneration cycles, indicating considerably increased robustness of the bimetallic material compared to the monometallic counterpart.
Table 3. Catalytic Parameters for PDH Catalytic Tests of MnII/SiO2, Pt/SiO2, PtMn/SiO2, and Pt(0.05)Mn/SiO2
material feeda time [h] T [C] conv. [%] select. [%] WHSVb [gC3H8/gM h] productivityb [gC3H6/gM h] kd [h1] wt % M
MnII/SiO2 1:4 C3H8/Ar 0.1 550 1.7 56.6 4839 44.4 0.031 1.37 Mn
2 1.6 55.7 41.8
Pt/SiO2 0.1 17.2 81.5 834 110 1.464 3.96 Pt
2 1.1 77.8 7
PtMn/SiO2 0.1 39.9 96.1 2246 822 0.018 2.97 Pt, 1.34 Mn
60 18.1 97.3 373
PtMn/SiO2 0.1 40.7 92.5 1160 416 0.011 2.97 Pt, 1.34 Mn
60 26.6 99.1 272
Pt(0.05)Mn/SiO2 0.1 22.2 98.4 27369 5705 0.032 0.052 Pt, 1.38 Mn
60 4.1 89.8 1054
Pt(0.05)Mn/SiO2 1:1:3 C3H8/H2/Ar 0.1 17.8 97.3 27369 4523 0.003 0.052 Pt, 1.38 Mn
160 11.2 96.4 2846
a10 mL/min C3H8, 40 mL/min Ar or 10 mL/min C3H8, 10 mL/min H2, 30 mL/min Ar.
bM in gM is Mn for MnII/SiO2 and Pt otherwise.
While inherently difficult to characterize due to the very low Pt loading, this materialPt(0.05)Mn/SiO2shows initial productivity levels that are among the highest reported to date. (12) In the presence of H2 (1:1:3 C3H8/H2/Ar)a common condition in PDH catalysissuch a catalyst still shows comparable productivity (4523 gC3H6/gPt h) and additionally outstanding stability (kd of 0.003 h1) over 160 h on stream, highlighting the outstanding performance of such SOMC-derived PtMn catalysts (Figure S65). It is noteworthy that the PSD almost does not change for the PtMn/SiO2 (+0.2 nm after 66 h) and Pt(0.05)Mn/SiO2 (+0.1 nm after 48 h) materials during PDH conditions, which is in contrast to what is observed for monometallic Pt/SiO2 (+0.5 nm after 8.7 h) (see Supporting Information for detail, Figures S3, S7, and S10). These observations verify what we proposed in that Mn plays an important role for sintering prevention. While both investigated materials also contain a small fraction of Pt single sites (Figures S5 and S9), they only make up a very minor fraction of overall surface Pt and therefore very likely do not contribute significantly to the catalytic activity in these samples.
With these results in hand, we evaluated the stability of PtMn/SiO2 upon fast cycling by monitoring the evolution of the catalysts by STEM energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (STEM-EDXS). For this purpose, we applied repeated cycles of C3H8, O2/Ar, and H2 flow at high temperature designed to test the robustness of the PtMn/SiO2 system toward repeated short regeneration phases, which are also applied in industrial settings. (17) We tested both Pt/SiO2 and PtMn/SiO2 under short deactivation phases followed by short oxidation and reduction treatments (Table 4 and Figure 4B,C, see Supporting Information for detail).
Table 4. Regeneration Data for the Fast Regeneration Cycles of Pt/SiO2 and PtMn/SiO2a
material regeneration cycle conv. [%]b select. [%]b PSDc
Pt/SiO2 1 8.2 79.4 2.0  0.8
6 1.9 77.3 2.6  0.8
PtMn/SiO2 1 41.2 95.0 1.0  0.3
6 37.0 98.0 1.2  0.8
aPDH cycles of 20 min at 550 C (WHSV of 1160 h1 (PtMn/SiO2) and 857 h1 (Pt/SiO2)) with flow of 5% O2/Ar at 500 C for 20 min and 100% H2 at 550 C for 20 min in deactivation phases.
bAverage of 20 min (3 data points).
cBefore 1st cycle and after 6th cycle.
PtMn/SiO2 shows an outstanding performance with little deactivation over 6 cycles, approaching a very high level of conversion of around 37%, which is just below equilibrium conversion (around 40%, Figure 4C) and a very high selectivity of 98%. In comparison, Pt/SiO2 performs poorly under such regeneration conditions2% conversion after 6 cycles and 72% propene selectivitywith deactivation to almost background level (SiC: 1.4% propane conversion, Figure S59) and low selectivity for propene over 6 cycles (Figure 4B).
Comparing the two materials after regeneration shows that the average particle size in Pt/SiO2 grows quite significantly, that is, by 0.6 nm in diameter, albeit with unchanged size homogeneity in contrast to PtMn/SiO2 where almost no particle growth is observed (0.2 nm), while the size homogeneity decreases. The PSD for PtMn/SiO2 after the fast cycles is best modelled by a lognormal distribution (see Supporting Information Figures S4 and S8). A large majority of very small (below 1 nm) particles are observable, while a small minority of larger particles exist. This behavior can again be attributed to a strong interaction of the Mn in the nanoparticles with remaining MnII sites at the support surface consistent with what has been found in CO IR and the MTD study, most likely contributing to reduced particle sintering during the regeneration cycles.
Notably, EXAFS fitting at the Pt LIII edge after conducting a regeneration cycle on the PtMn/SiO2 material results in an almost identical fit when compared to the pristine material, with almost unchanged CNs (see Supporting Information for detail, Figure S35 and Table S8). This result supports minor particle growth and insignificant structural change during such harsh regeneration conditions, in line with the STEM study. The TEM results in combination with the data of the short regeneration cycles for PtMn/SiO2 point toward a stabilization of the conversion at high levels with very high propene selectivity and a very good sintering prevention of the PtMn particles on the support surface, underlining the robustness of the material toward repeated treatment under harsh regeneration conditions, making it an interesting alternative candidate for industrial PDH application. This is in contrast to what is observed for Pt/SiO2, which is not robust toward regeneration with fast deactivation and more severe particle growth.
3. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this work, we describe the synthesis and the detailed characterization of a silica-supported PtMn materialPtMn/SiO2which shows a high productivity, selectivity, and robustness in the PDH reaction. Thanks to its tailored synthesis via an SOMC/TMP approach and the multi-technique characterization approach, including CO IR, STEM, XAS, and EPR, further supported by MTD calculations, we could show that this material consists of homogeneously distributed and size uniform Pt2Mn nanoparticles, supported on a MnII-decorated (70% of the overall Mn) silica support with noteworthy and unexpected structure. Combined EXAFS analysis and MTD calculations identify significant spatial segregation of Pt and Mn, with Pt mostly forming the inner part of the particles, while most of the Mn0 accumulates at the interface between Pt and the silica support, forming a half shell around the Pt core. Despite the segregated nature, which is viewed as detrimental for a highly performing PDH catalyst, PtMn/SiO2 (3 wt % Pt, 1.3 wt % Mn) displays high productivity. Furthermore, PtMn/SiO2 shows great robustness toward consecutive regeneration cycles, which is attributed to reduced sintering under such harsh conditions, compared to the monometallic Pt counterpart. This robustness is attributed to the strong interaction of the Mn0 at the surface of the nanoparticles with the MnII-decorated silica support. Notably, a material with a similar Mn content but much lower Pt loading of only 0.05 wt % revealed outstanding performance per gPt, ranging among the highest reported productivities (4523 gC3H6/gPt h) to date, with almost no deactivation over 160 h on stream when operating under a partial pressure of H2. Overall, we have demonstrated that the combination of SOMC and state-of-the-art spectroscopy refined with MTD at the DFT level provide a powerful tool to develop well-defined bimetallic materials and to understand their structure with molecular-level precision, here revealing an unexpectedly segregated structure for a highly performing and robust PDH catalyst. These findings indicate that site isolation may not be a prerequisite for high performance in alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. We are currently further exploring related systems.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 