<DOCUMENT>
CFD-DEM analysis of the influence of heat storage materials on propane dehydrogenation process
Highlights
•
Heat transfer in propane dehydrogenation is analyzed using CFD-DEM.
•
HSM particles provide heat by particle–fluid–particle conduction.
•
Heat from convection and radiation can balance the heat of reaction.
•
Specific heat capacity of HSM can influence the transient heat transfer.
Abstract
The heat transfer process can significantly affect the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reaction due to its strongly endothermic nature. This paper describes the influence of heat storage materials (HSM) on the heat transfer and reaction process of PDH, using computational fluid dynamics coupled with discrete element method in combination with reaction kinetics and heat transfer models at the particle scale. During the dehydrogenation, the particle temperature and propane conversion gradually decrease due to the endothermic nature until they become relatively stable. It is found that, initially, HSM particles can provide heat to the reaction through particle–fluid–particle conduction and maintain higher temperature and propane conversion. Gradually, HSM particles can take part in the gas–solid convection and then transfer the heat to the catalyst particles by particle–fluid–particle conduction for the endothermic reaction. Eventually, the heat of reaction and the heat from the hot feed by convection and radiation reach a balance. Furthermore, HSM particles with higher specific heat capacity can provide more heat to the reaction, while the thermal conductivity of HSM particles has insignificant effect on the heat transfer process, since the particle–fluid–particle conduction plays a major role in the heat transfer between particles. This study presents comprehensive understandings of the heat transfer process and the function of HSM particles for endothermic reaction.
Graphical abstract
Download : Download high-res image (219KB)
Download : Download full-size image
1. Introduction
Propylene, which is one of the most important raw chemical materials to produce various industrial products (e.g., acrolein, polypropylene, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide), is mainly produced as a byproduct of fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking for many decades (Sattler et al., 2014). Due to the availability of low-priced propane from shale gas (Chen et al., 2011, McFarland, 2012, Rogers, 2011), the direct dehydrogenation of propane, nowadays, has been proposed as a promising route for propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an equilibrium-limited and highly endothermic reaction which is generally performed at 550–750 °C under atmospheric pressure, using platinum-based or chromium-based catalysts (Chen et al., 2021). Since a relatively high temperature is required for the PDH reaction due to the endothermic nature (Farjoo et al., 2011), one of the technical considerations in the development of an industrial dehydrogenation process is to efficiently supply and use the heat energy for the reaction (Dittrich, 2020, Miracca and Piovesan, 1999). In principle, the heat for PDH reaction can be from the preheating of gas feed, and/or the heating through the reactor wall (Sanfilippo and Miracca, 2006, Vora, 2012). Generally, the wall heating can lead to a radial temperature profile inside the reactor especially for fixed beds (Miracca and Piovesan, 1999, Zhao et al., 2023). In addition, the heat transfer between gas and solid phases is also elusive. As most experimental measurements of heat transfer in gas–solid flow can be intrusive, which is also difficult to obtain the detailed information of the heat transfer routes, especially between phases. The numerical methods have been proposed as feasible ways to investigate the interphase mass, momentum, and heat transfer in gas–solid systems (Tenneti et al., 2013).
In the past decades, for propane dehydrogenation, extensive researches have been conducted to investigate the transport and reaction using numerical methods combined with kinetics models obtained from experiments (Behnam et al., 2010, Du et al., 2019, Larsson et al., 1998, Lobera et al., 2008). Lobera et al. (2008) proposed a complete kinetic model of propane dehydrogenation, which was then used in a three-phase reactor model including emulsion, bubble, and wake phase for the fluidized bed reactor to calculate the propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Although some simplifications were made based on the process, the comparison between the simulation and experiments generally shows the capability of numerical methods in describing the real process. Behnam et al. (2010) used direct numerical simulation (DNS) to investigate the catalyst deactivation for propane dehydrogenation on Cr2O3/Al2O3 cylindrical catalyst particles. Since the surface of the particle was meshed, the local details of carbon deposition on catalyst particles near the wall were analyzed. However, due to the restriction of the computational load, a more rigorous, true time-dependent simulation is expected. The propane dehydrogenation reaction in full-size industrial reactors has also been investigated. For example, the industrial radial moving beds were modelled in radial or radial and axial direction using 4th order Runge-Kutta method for the optimization of PDH process (Chin et al., 2016, Hu et al., 2019, Miraboutalebi et al., 2015, Yee et al., 2015). Besides, Du et al. (2019) used the Eulerian- Eulerian method to study the reactor performance in a light alkane dehydrogenation pilot reactor. A more detailed hydrodynamics and species concentration distributions in the entire PDH reactor can be captured with numerical modeling. Zhao et al. (2023) used porous media model to analyze non-uniform physical fields, e.g., temperature, velocity and species concentration in the PDH fixed bed, and investigated the influence of particle and bed properties on the temperature distribution. These studies show that the PDH process can be analyzed in different aspects via appropriate numerical methods.
The endothermic nature of the dehydrogenation process presents some constraints on developing commercial processes, since the equilibrium conversion is limited by thermodynamics (Sanfilippo and Miracca, 2006). To date, several representative processes for propane dehydrogenation have been emerging globally (Sattler et al., 2014). Among them, Catofin (Lummus) and Oleflex (UOP) technologies have been industrialized and widely applied (Chen et al., 2021, Sattler et al., 2014). For these processes, the required heat for reaction comes from pre-heated reactant gas and the catalyst bed, despite the difference in the use of catalysts and reactors. Moreover, inert materials (e.g., for Catofin process) is added to the catalyst bed by mixing with the catalyst particles to improve the heat condition (Fridman et al., 2009, Sattler et al., 2014). The adding of inert materials with high heat capacity and density inside the catalyst bed can affect propane dehydrogenation reaction process by providing more heat for the endothermic process and help stabilize the overall temperature swings in the reactor (Fridman and Urbancic, 2011). Furthermore, heat-generating materials developed with the ability in producing heat with reducing and/or oxidizing reaction condition also play an important role in the catalyst bed (Fridman and Urbancic, 2017). Therefore, it is of fundamental importance to understand the coupled heat transfer and reaction process between gas and solid phases within the reactor.
Generally, heat transfer routes inside reactors include gas-particle convection, conduction between particles and radiation. The computational fluid dynamics coupled with discrete element method (CFD-DEM) treats the fluid phase as a continuum medium and solid particles as individual elements, which can be suitable for the study of heat transfer behaviors between gas and solid particles. Previous researches have investigated different mechanisms in terms of contributions of heat transfer routes on the heating/cooling process for both fluidized and fixed bed (Tsory et al., 2013, Wang et al., 2019), and have shown the influence of various parameters on heat transfer processes (Hou et al., 2012a, Hou et al., 2012b, Xue et al., 2021, Zhou et al., 2010). Furthermore, some researches have shown the advantage of CFD-DEM method in investigating the fundamental heat transfer mechanism of multiphase endothermic and exothermic reaction processes. Natsui et al. (2014) used CFD-DEM method to investigate the behavior of coke and ore particles in the blast furnace and calculate the heat fluxes of different heat transfer routes. It is found that the convection has great influence on the reaction rate. Wang and Shen (2021b) investigated the multiphase flow and multiphase heat transfer routes in terms of convection, conduction and radiation in a char combustion bubbling fluidized bed using the CFD-DEM approach. Results show that the contribution of convection and radiation are dominant, while the contribution of conduction can be negligible. Zheng et al. (2021) investigated the effects of gas velocity and irradiative flux on the thermochemical heat storage performance of fluidized black CaCO3 pellets in a solar thermochemical heat storage system using CFD-DEM model. The effect of radiation can be significant under high temperature condition (e.g., >1000 K). It can be seen that CFD-DEM method can be employed to investigate the heat transfer process and chemical reaction between phases in various beds.
This paper describes the influence of heat storage materials on the heat transfer and reaction in PDH process. The reaction kinetics over Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts is employed, and various heat transfer routes are considered using CFD-DEM model. The distributions of physical fields in terms of temperature and species concentration, are compared and analyzed between the beds with and without heat storage materials (HSM). The influence of heat storage materials on heat transfer process during the dehydrogenation is analyzed. Moreover, contributions of gas-particle convection, particle–fluid–particle conduction, particle–particle conduction, and radiation are evaluated under different conditions, and the effects of thermal properties of HSM are discussed to further understand the heat transfer process during PDH reaction.
2. Numerical model
The CFD-DEM model is used to model the flow, heat transfer and chemical reactions inside the fixed bed. Detailed descriptions of the governing equations for the fluid phase, particle phase, and reaction kinetics are presented (Garg et al., 2012, Li et al., 2012, Musser and Carney, 2020). The heat transfer models at the particle scale are also summarized in this section.
2.1. Gas phase governing equations
The gas phase model employed by the CFD-DEM is based on the volume averaging method (Anderson and Jackson, 1967, Jackson, 1997). In this approach, continuum equations for the gas phase are derived from Navier-Stokes equations by converting point variables to local mean variables (Van Wachem et al., 2001). The continuity equation for the gas phase can be given as:
(1)
where
is gas phase volume fraction,
is gas density,
is the
component of gas velocity,
is the generation or consumption rate of species n in the gas phase, and
is the total number of species that compose the gas phase.
The conservation of momentum for the gas phase is formulated as:
(2)
where
is the gas phase stress tensor,
is the
component of the gravity vector, and
represents the exchange of momentum between the gas and the
solids phase in the
direction. M is the total number of solids phases present during a simulation.
Interphase momentum exchange term
is given by:
(3)
where
is the gas-solids drag force acting on the particle indexed by (
), belonging to solids phase m, and contained within the control volume (CV).
is the volume of the CV,
is the number of solids phase m particles contained in the CV, and
is a function used to distribute the point-form drag force to the computational nodes of the gas phase Eulerian grid.
is the volume of the particle.
is the gas phase pressure at the particle’s position,
is the solids volume fraction of the
solids phase in the CV, and
is the gas phase velocity at the particle’s position. v(i) is the ith particle velocity.
is the local gas-solids momentum transfer coefficient for particle (i) in the CV, which is calculated from the Gidaspow drag model (Gidaspow, 1994):
(4)
(5)
(6)
The conservation of internal energy for the gas phase is given as:
(7)
where
,
, and
are the specific heat, temperature, and thermal conductivity of the gas, respectively.
is the energy transferred between the gas and solids phases.
2.2. Solid phase governing equations
In CFD-DEM method, the particle motion is described by Newton’ s second law, and the calculation of collision between particles are based on soft sphere collision model.
The momentum equation is given as:
(8)
(9)
where a particle indexed by the superscript (
),
and
are the particle’s mass, linear and angular velocities, and mass moment of inertia, respectively.
are the total forces resulting from particle-particle collisions,
are the total forces including gas-solids interaction, cohesion, etc.
are the total torque acting on particle
.
The total collision force acting on particle (i) can be given by:
(10)
where
represents the set of particles in contact with particle (
).
,
is represented the normal force and the tangential force, respectively. The linear spring-dashpot (LSD) contact model is used to solve the collision force between particle (
) and particle (
). Details of the CFD-DEM model can be found in the MFIX-DEM documentation (Garg et al., 2012, Li et al., 2012).
The internal energy conservation equation for a single, isothermal particle is given as:
(11)
where
,
, and
are the particle’s mass, specific heat, and temperature, respectively.
is the total rate of heat transfer of particle contacting conduction,
is the total rate of heat transfer of particle–fluid–particle conduction,
is the rate of convective heat transfer between fluid and particle,
is the rate of radiative heat transfer between the particle (
) and the fluid phase together with the surrounding particles in the same fluid cell. Detailed mathematical models for
,
,
, and
are provided in Table 1 (Musser, 2011).
is the heat of the
th heterogeneous reaction over the reference particle. The internal temperature gradient inside particles is ignored due to its small Biot Number (e.g., < 1) (Lu et al., 2022, Luo et al., 2020). Thus, a uniform temperature distribution has been assumed in the catalyst particles.
Table 1. Summary of equations of four particle heat transfer routes (Musser, 2011, Wang et al., 2019).
Modes Equation
Empty Cell
Conduction
(12)
(13)
where
(14)
and
(15)
Convection
(16)
Radiation

where
(17)
2.3. Chemical reaction model
The propane dehydrogenation is a heterogeneous catalytic reaction, and its reaction process mainly includes dehydrogenation, cracking and coke formation. The PDH reaction kinetics model used in this work was proposed by Li et al. (2011), and the Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst was used as the dehydrogenation catalyst. Over the catalyst, propane dehydrogenation and propane cracking can be described as follows:
(18)
(19)
The dehydrogenation rate r1 is described by Langmuir-Hinshelwood approach as:
(20)
The thermodynamic equilibrium constant
is given as:
(21)
The cracking rate r2 is assumed to be first order with respect to propane:
(22)
In this work, the reaction is considered without internal and external diffusion limitations due to the small particle size and high inlet gas velocity. The coke formation also does not consider due to the high reaction stability and short reaction time. The propylene selectivity can only vary slightly in Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst systems under the temperature from 580 °C to 620 °C (Sahebdelfar and Tahriri, 2010, Zangeneh et al., 2013). In this study, the propylene selectivity remains around 92% with and without HSM in the temperature range of 550 °C-600 °C. Therefore, other side reactions, such as deep dehydrogenation, hydrogenolysis, and polymerization, and the influence of propylene selectivity are not further discussed in our work. According to Li et al. (2011), the reaction constants including k1, k2, K2, and K3 are expressed as the reparametrized form of Arrhenius equations, and a reference temperature Tm = 565 °C is employed as shown in Eqs. (23), (24). Details of kinetic parameters are summarized in Table 2.
(23)
(24)
Table 2. Parameters for kinetic model.
Parameters Value
2.4. Numerical algorithm and solution
The simulations are conducted with the open-source code Multiphase Flow with Interphase eXchange (MFiX). The simulation of hydrodynamics and reaction and its coupling are solved by the standard modules in MFiX, while the heterogeneous reactions are incorporated by user defined functions. Different numerical schemes are used for the solution of gas and solid governing equations. For the solid phase, to obtain new values after each time update, the equation for momentum, heat transfer, and species transport are integrated by using a first-order Euler scheme. The temporal and spatial discretization for governing equations of gas phase may differ due to the convergence speed, degree of difficulty in convergence (Wang et al., 2020) and accuracy (Xie et al., 2019). In this work, the temporal discretization is solved under implicit Euler scheme, and the first-order upwind is adapted for the spatial discretization.
3. Computational setup
3.1. Model validation setup
CFD-DEM model is used to simulate the PDH kinetic experiments. The PDH kinetics over Pt-Sn/Al2O3 obtained by Li et al. (2011) was chosen to verify the application of CFD-DEM model for PDH reaction. As discussed before, the reaction is considered without internal and external diffusion limitations. The CFD-DEM model is constructed by adopting the experimental setup given by Li et al. (2011), and the PDH reaction in a fixed bed with internal diameter of 6 mm is simulated. The proposed scheme is shown in Fig. 1. Initially, the catalyst particles with a diameter of 150 μm will be loaded in bed. The total amount of the catalyst particles is 0.1 g. The initial temperature of the fixed bed is 803.15 K, 823.15 K, and 873.15 K, respectively. In different temperature conditions, the inlet gas temperature varies with the initial bed temperature. The feed components vary according to the experimental setup. The inlet gas velocity is 0.047 m/s. The gas passes through the catalyst bed from top to bottom.
Download : Download high-res image (119KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Schematic of the fixed bed.
3.2. Cyclic boundary setup
To investigate the heat transfer within this heterogeneous catalytic process, a fixed bed setup with cyclic boundary conditions (x- and z- direction) is used as shown in Fig. 2. The fixed bed with x- and z- cyclic boundary conditions is chosen to investigate the heat transfer process without considering the wall effect which may cause non-uniform bed porosity and temperature distribution. This setup will keep the focus on the heat transfer process within the particle system and the influence of HSM particles. The bed sizes in x, y, and z direction are 0.0054 m, 0.011 m and 0.0054 m, respectively. And the grid size, which is important for the accurate calculation of grid void fraction and the grid volume averaged gas-particle momentum exchange in CFD-DEM, is generally set to 3–5 times of particle diameter (Clarke et al., 2018, Diggs and Balachandar, 2016, Wang et al., 2019, Wang and Shen, 2021a). In our work, the grid size is 3 times of the particle diameter. The subsequent number of computational cells in x, y, and z direction is 12, 24, and 12, respectively. A total number of 40,000 catalyst particles were randomly generated inside the bed. After deposition, a fixed bed with a height of about 4 mm is formed. When the HSM particles are used, they are randomly mixed with pre-generated catalyst particles and then packed together. The inlet gas velocity is 0.047 m/s. The gas goes through the catalyst bed from top to bottom. The inlet gas temperature and initial temperature of catalysts and HSM are set as 873.15 K. The diameter of catalyst and HSM is 150 μm. The mass of HSM is set to 0.03 g to have a clear illustration of the influence of HSM with an acceptable computational time. Detailed parameters for simulations are shown in Table 3. It should be noted that the specific heat capacity of the gas and catalyst particles are calculated based on the specific heat capacity and proportion of its components. The specific heat capacity of each species is calculated by NASA 7-Coefficient polynomials, according to the Active Thermochemical Tables (ATcT) database (Ruscic et al., 2005). The density and specific heat capacity of HSM particles are defined according to the properties of SiO2. The solid thermal conductivity of catalyst particles and HSM particles, are estimated according to experimental work (Harriott, 1975).
Download : Download high-res image (388KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Schematic of: (a) the fixed bed with boundary conditions; (b) initial structures of catalyst bed (FB) (-left), catalyst bed premixed with heat storage materials (HSM-FB) (-right).
Table 3. Physical and numerical parameters for simulations.
Parameters Unit Value
Gas phase
Density (
) kg⋅m−3 Ideal gas law
Viscosity (
) Pa⋅s Sutherland’s law
Molar weight (
) kg⋅kmol−1
Spec. heat (
) J∙kg−1∙K−1
Therm. Cond. (
) W∙m−1∙K−1
Inlet gas components wt C3H8 0.393; C3H6 0.043; H2 0.003; Ar 0.561
Solid phase
Restitution coefficients – 0.9
Normal spring constant N∙m−1 1000
Coulomb friction coefficient – 0.3
Rolling friction coefficient – 5
10−4
Spring tan/norm ratio – 2/7
Damping tan/norm ratio – 0.5
Catalyst particles
Density (
) kg⋅m−3 1400
Spec. heat (
) J∙kg−1∙K−1
Therm. Cond. (
) W∙m−1∙K−1 0.14
Emissivity (
) – 0.65
Species wt Al2O3 0.995; Pt 0.005
Heat storage material
(SiO2)
Density (
) kg
m−3 1715
Spec. heat (
) J∙kg−1∙K−1 1200
Therm. Cond. (
) W∙m−1∙K−1 1.4
Emissivity (
) – 0.65
Number of particles – 9900
CFD-DEM simulations are carried out on a high-performance computer cluster using 36 CPU cores based on the parallel computation of the open-source MFIX software (Gopalakrishnan and Tafti, 2013). As the transient calculation, all cases in this study are simulated for at least 160 s of physical time to achieve its stable state.
4. Results and discussion
4.1. Model validation
Fig. 3 shows the comparison of propane conversion between the modeling and experimental results under various reaction conditions including reacting temperature and propane feed fraction. Generally, the propane conversion from simulations under various reaction conditions have the same trend as that from experiments, which are in broad agreement. The slight difference between the simulations and experiments could be due to the difference in catalyst density, non-spherical particle shape and the subsequent porosity from experiments (Chu et al., 2022, Karthik and Buwa, 2020), and also the non-uniform temperature distribution inside the bed (Zhao et al., 2023). Nevertheless, the broad agreement suggests the capability of CFD-DEM method in the analysis of PDH reaction process in the fixed bed.
Download : Download high-res image (140KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Comparison of propane conversion between the simulation and experimental results under various conditions.
4.2. The influence of heat storage materials in the fixed bed with cyclic boundaries
The propane dehydrogenation processes in the fixed bed without (FB) and with HSM (HSM-FB) are compared to investigate the influence of heat storage materials. For the two processes, same operation parameters, including inlet flow rate, mass of catalysts and initial temperature, are set in the simulations with cyclic (periodic) boundaries.
The evolution of propane conversion and average particle temperature in both systems are compared in Fig. 4. The average particle temperature is defined as the average temperature over particles. As seen from the profiles, in both systems, the propane conversion and average particle temperature decrease with time, and finally achieve a stable state in the fixed bed with cyclic boundaries. The high endothermic nature of the reaction can lead to a temperature decrease in beds, which can cause the decrease in propane conversion until the heat from the gas phase can support the reaction. Generally, in some commercial PDH processes, the HSM particles used in adiabatic reactors can add heat to the catalyst bed and maintain a high temperature of the bed to efficiently convert propane (Fridman et al., 2009, Fridman and Urbancic, 2011). In our work, it can be observed that the HSM can enhances the ability of catalyst bed to maintain the temperature and convert propane during the transient reaction process, in comparison with FB. Nevertheless, HSM-FB eventually achieves the same stable propane conversion as FB (i.e., t > 160 s).
Download : Download high-res image (244KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Evolution profiles of average particle temperature and propane conversion in FB and HSM-FB.
In order to analyze the influence of heat storage materials on reacting flow field distribution, the C3H8 mass fraction distribution along the axial position at different time are compared between FB and HSM-FB. As illustrated in Fig. 5, the feed gas goes through the catalyst beds from top to bottom, which results in a gradual decrease of C3H8 mass fraction through the bed due to the conversion. It is noted that the C3H8 mass fraction along the axial position in HSM-FB is generally smaller than that in FB at the same reaction time, since more propane was converted in HSM-FB due to the higher average particle temperature. Furthermore, during the reaction process, the difference of C3H8 mass fraction at the outlet between FB and HSM-FB gradually increases and then decreases to the same level, which agrees well with Fig. 4. The catalyst bed in HSM-FB shows its advantage in converting propane during the transient process, although eventually the propane conversion in HSM-FB achieves the same stable state as that of FB.
Download : Download high-res image (301KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. C3H8 mass fraction distribution along the axial position at different time in FB and HSM-FB.
The temperature distributions along the axial position in FB and HSM-FB are illustrated in Fig. 6. As shown in Fig. 6, the gas temperature is 600 °C at the entrance and decreases dramatically when it contacts with the catalyst bed. It is noted that the temperature difference between gas and particles is small since the initial temperature of the bed is also 600 °C. At t = 1 s, in both systems, the temperature in the upper part of the catalyst bed is slightly lower than that in the lower part of the bed. However, an opposite temperature difference with a higher temperature at the upper part of the bed can be captured at t = 40 s. At the beginning of the reaction process (e.g., t = 1 s), the heat of particles in the upper part of the catalyst bed is consumed by the endothermic reaction under high temperature condition, so the temperature of the upper part of the catalyst bed is lower than that of the lower part. As the reaction continues, the catalyst particles in the upper part are heated by the hot gas continually, which leads to a higher temperature in the upper part. Moreover, the temperature of the entire catalyst bed decreases with time in both FB and HSM-FB. During the transient process, the HSM-FB achieves a higher temperature of the entire bed in comparison with FB, which agrees with Fig. 4. Eventually (i.e., t = 160 s), the temperature distribution along the axial position in the two systems have the same trend and the temperature difference between the two systems becomes much smaller.
Download : Download high-res image (331KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. The distribution of gas and particle temperature along the axial position of the bed in FB and HSM-FB at different time.
4.3. Heat transfer routes inside the bed
The heat transfer process of the two systems in the catalyst bed are analyzed based on different heat transfer routes including gas-particle convection, particle–fluid–particle conduction, particle–particle conduction and radiation. The heat transfer rate of each route in both systems is calculated and compared in Fig. 7a and 7b. The heat transfer rates in FB are shown in Fig. 7a. It is noted that the value for convective heat transfer rate reaches its positive maximum with time and then remains stable, because the catalyst particles which provide heat to the endothermic reaction can be directly heated by the hot feed. The heat transfer rate of particle–fluid–particle conduction presents a negative value at the beginning, and then reaches its positive maximum value. As time goes by, the value decreases and stays in a relatively small value. Since the endothermic reaction happens dramatically at the beginning as shown in Fig. 4, the heat in the particles is consumed during this process, and particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate presents a negative value. During the dehydrogenation, particles in the upper part of the catalyst bed can absorb heat from the hot gas through particle-gas convection and transfer heat to the particles in the lower part by particles–fluid–particle conduction, which leads to a positive value of particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate. When the system reaches its stable state, the heat transferred by particle–fluid–particle conduction achieves a dynamic equilibrium. Therefore, the heat transfer rate of particle–fluid–particle conduction fluctuates at a relatively stable value. The radiative heat transfer rate can not be ignored during the dehydrogenation since part of the heat can be supplied by gas-particle radiation to the particles. The heat transferred by particle–particle conduction is relatively small in comparison with the other routes. Since the particle–particle conduction is restricted by the contact area and the particle thermal conductivity. When the contact area and thermal conductivity of particles are small, the heat transferred by particle–particle conduction is relatively low (Zhou et al., 2009, Zhou et al., 2010).
Download : Download high-res image (650KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Evolution profiles of: (a) heat transfer rate of different routes in FB; (b) heat transfer rate of different routes in HSM-FB; (c) heat transfer rate of different routes for HSM in HSM-FB; (d) convective heat transfer rate between catalyst/HSM particles and gas phase in FB and HSM-FB.
The heat transferred by different routes in HSM-FB are illustrated in Fig. 7b. Similar trend of the evolution of convective heat transfer rate can be observed when compared with FB. The convective heat transfer rate in HSM-FB also achieves nearly the same stable value as that in FB. It is noted that the particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate in HSM-FB reaches a larger negative value at the beginning and remains negative before t = 30 s. Since particles in HSM-FB can release heat (mainly by HSM in this case) to the reaction, the particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate in HSM-FB presents a larger negative value in a longer time than that in FB. Afterwards, the particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate shows a positive value, and the value increases with time until it becomes stable. This phenomenon suggests an enhanced particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer in HSM-FB due to the existence of HSM particles for the endothermic reaction.
The analysis of various heat transfer based on HSM particles in HSM-FB is shown in Fig. 7c. The convective heat transfer rate becomes negative at the beginning, and then gradually increases to its positive maximum and remains relatively stable eventually for HSM-FB. The reason is that the heat in HSM particles is consumed by the reaction through particle-gas convection at the beginning. As the reaction proceeds, the HSM particles are heated by the hot feed gradually. The particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate of HSM particles increases to its maximum at the beginning and gradually decreases with time. It should be noted that the value remains negative during the transient process, which means the heat in HSM particles is consumed by the endothermic reaction through particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer. Eventually, the particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate fluctuates around a relatively small value (near zero) in stable process.
The convective heat transfer between catalyst/HSM particles and the gas in both systems are compared in Fig. 7d. It can be found that the HSM particles take part in the convective heat transfer and reduce the heat transferred from the gas phase to the catalyst particles. In this work, the catalyst particle temperature decreases firstly, and the heat required by the reaction can be supplied externally by the hot feed (FB), or the hot feed and HSM particles (HSM-FB). In HSM-FB, the heat provided by the hot feed through catalyst-gas convection is smaller, because a part of the heat in hot feed is absorbed by HSM particles and is transferred through particle–fluid–particle conduction to the catalyst particles for the reaction. Thus, a non-zero value of particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate is formed as shown in Fig. 7b.
As discussed above, there is an energy balance in both FB and HSM-FB since the average particle temperature, propane conversion, and heat transfer rate between phases will become stable eventually. During the dehydrogenation, the heat consumed by the endothermic reaction can be supplied by the pre-heated particles and hot feed. However, in the two systems, the hot feed is the only way to continually supply heat for the endothermic reaction. As shown in Fig. 8, the heat transferred from the hot feed through convection and radiation will finally be in balance with the heat consumed due to the endothermic reaction. It can be found that in the transient state, more heat can be consumed in HSM-FB system, since the HSM particles can supply extra heat to the endothermic reaction through particle–fluid–particle conduction (Fig. 7c). Eventually, the heat consumed by the endothermic reaction and the heat provided by the hot feed through convection and radiation reach an energy balance in the two systems with cyclic boundaries.
Download : Download high-res image (300KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Heat transfer rates from hot feed and heat consumption in FB and HSM-FB.
The contributions of different heat transfer routes in FB and HSM-FB are shown in Fig. 9. The contribution of each heat transfer route is illustrated as the percentage of the transferred heat (absolute value of all particles) by each route to the total value (Hou et al., 2012a, Wang et al., 2019, Zhou et al., 2009). It can be noticed that in both systems the contribution of particle–fluid–particle conduction is dominant, followed by the convection, and the contribution of radiation is low. Furthermore, the contribution of particle–particle conduction is relatively small in both FB and HSM-FB due to the small contact area and thermal conductivity of particles. It is found that the contribution of particle–fluid–particle conduction is enhanced in HSM-FB, because in HSM-FB, more heat is transferred by this route in comparison with FB as discussed in Fig. 7. In the two systems, the contribution of particle–fluid–particle conduction are around 60%, and the percentage of the contribution of particle-gas convection remains at around 35%. Similar results can be observed in the investigation of the effects of material properties on heat transfer in gas–solid system proposed by Hou et al. (2012a).
Download : Download high-res image (269KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Contributions of different heat transfer routes: (a) FB; (b) HSM-FB.
4.4. Effects of thermal properties of heat storage materials on propane dehydrogenation
The effects of some important thermal properties of heat storage materials are investigated to have a further understanding of the influence of heat storage materials on the heat transfer and reaction process. Some guidance on the improvement of the heat supplying ability of heat storage materials during the dehydrogenation process in PDH fixed bed are expected to be given in this part. The range of thermal properties chosen to be investigated in this part are based on the properties of some common metals and metal oxides particles (e.g., Fe, Ag, CuO, Al2O3) (Dinker et al., 2017, Harriott, 1975). The properties of catalyst particles remain unchanged for a focused investigation of the influence of thermal properties of HSM particles.
Firstly, the effect of specific heat capacity (CpHSM) of heat storage material on the average particle temperature is shown in Fig. 10a. Values of CpHSM from 480 J∙kg−1∙K−1 to 1680 J∙kg−1∙K−1 were chosen to be investigated. The amount and thermal conductivity of HSM particles are 0.03 g and 1.4 W∙m−1∙K−1, respectively. The decrease of average particle temperature becomes slow by increasing the specific heat capacity of HSM. And a higher propane conversion is given under higher specific heat capacity of HSM at the same reaction time in transient process (Fig. 10b). Since the specific heat capacity of the heat storage material is increased, more heat pre-stored in HSM during the preheating process can improves the heat supplying ability of HSM during the dehydrogenation (Fig. 10c).
Download : Download high-res image (530KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Evolution profiles of (a) average particle temperature; (b) propane conversion; and (c) particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate of HSM under different specific heat capacity of HSM.
And then the effects of thermal conductivity kHSM of HSM particles on the average particle temperature and propane conversion are shown in Fig. 11a-11c. Values of kHSM from 0.014 W∙m−1∙K−1 to 14 W∙m−1∙K−1 were chosen to be investigated. The amount and specific heat capacity of HSM particles are 0.03 g and 1200 J∙kg−1∙K−1 respectively. Fig. 11a shows that the thermal conductivity of HSM particles has insignificant effect on the average bed temperature, and the same propane conversion can be obtained with different heat transfer conductivities (Fig. 11b). This result seems reasonable since the contribution of particle–particle conduction is relatively small when compared with other heat transfer routes as discussed above. It is also noted that the heat in HSM transferred by particle–fluid–particle conduction remains nearly unchanged under different conditions (Fig. 11c).
Download : Download high-res image (272KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Evolution profiles of (a) average particle temperature; (b) propane conversion; and (c) particle–fluid–particle conductive heat transfer rate of HSM under different thermal conductivity of HSM.
5. Conclusions
In this work, the CFD-DEM method has been extended to study the reaction and heat transfer in the PDH process by adopting PDH reaction kinetics and heat transfer models at the particle scale. The particle temperature and propane conversion decrease gradually during the dehydrogenation until reach a stable state eventually. However, this decreasing trend can be influenced by adding HSM particles, since extra heat provided by HSM particles through particle–fluid–particle conduction maintains a higher temperature and propane conversion in the bed during the transient process. Generally, the heat in the hot feed can be continually provided to the reaction and results in the stable state of the catalyst bed. HSM particles also take part in the gas-particle convection and transfer the heat by particle–fluid–particle conduction which significantly determines the heat transfer process. Eventually, it is found that the heat from the hot feed by convection and radiation can compensate the required heat for the endothermic reaction and lead to a relatively stable stage. In addition, HSM particles with higher specific heat capacity can affect the transient process by supplying more heat through particle–fluid–particle conduction to the reaction. It is suggested that the further work should consider the influence of more realistic thermal properties of HSM and catalyst particles in a larger range and the influence of wall effects on heat transfer process. Meanwhile, the PDH process with long reaction time, which suffers from the influence of coke formation, is expected to be simulated and investigated thoroughly. Overall, this study provides fundamental insights into the coupling mechanism between the heat transfer and endothermic reaction, especially with HSM particles.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgement
We acknowledge the National Key R&D Program of China (2021YFA1501302), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 22121004, U1862207, and 22122808), the Haihe Laboratory of Sustainable Chemical Transformations and the Program of Introducing Talents of Discipline to Universities (BP0618007) for financial support. This work is supported by the XPLORER PRIZE.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
