I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Unraveling Radical and Oxygenate Routes in the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over Boron Nitride
Abstract
Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an emerging technology to meet the global propylene demand with boron nitride (BN) catalysts likely to play a pivotal role. It is widely accepted that gas-phase chemistry plays a fundamental role in the BN-catalyzed ODHP. However, the mechanism remains elusive because short-lived intermediates are difficult to capture. We detect short-lived free radicals (CH3•, C3H5•) and reactive oxygenates, C24 ketenes and C23 enols, in ODHP over BN by operando synchrotron photoelectron photoion coincidence spectroscopy. In addition to a surface-catalyzed channel, we identify a gas-phase H-acceptor radical- and H-donor oxygenate-driven route, leading to olefin production. In this route, partially oxidized enols propagate into the gas phase, followed by dehydrogenation (and methylation) to form ketenes and finally yield olefins by decarbonylation. Quantum chemical calculations predict the >BO dangling site to be the source of free radicals in the process. More importantly, the easy desorption of oxygenates from the catalyst surface is key to prevent deep oxidation to CO2.
This publication is licensed under
CC-BY 4.0.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propylene (C3H6) is a crucial platform chemical in the petrochemical industry for organic and polymer synthesis. It is mainly produced by petroleum-derived steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. (13) The annual C3H6 production was 130 Mt in 2019 and is projected to grow to 191 Mt by 2030. (4) The recent shift from petroleum-derived naphtha to shale gas feedstock greatly increases the availability of ethylene (C2H4) and results in a gap between the supply of C3H6 and rising global demand. (5,6) To alleviate the propylene gap, the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane (C3H8) was industrialized recently by Honeywell UOP (Oleflex) and ABB Lumus (Catofin). (7,8) However, this process suffers from (1) rapid accumulation of coke, which requires frequent catalyst regeneration, and (2) high energy need due to the endothermicity of the process. (9,10) Therefore, the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) represents a promising alternative, with an estimated energy saving of ca. 45% due to its exothermicity, as well as the prevention of coke formation in the presence of O2. (1114) Transition metal oxide catalysts, such as vanadia species (VOx), are able to activate CH bonds in C3H8, boding well for ODHP performance. (1518) However, the partially occupied d-orbitals in transition metal oxides interact with the reactive intermediates, binding them strongly to the catalyst surface and leading to overoxidation to CO and CO2, limiting the selectivity of the process. (11,19,20)
In 2016, boron nitride (BN) emerged as a unique ODHP catalyst because of its high selectivity to C3H6 and the prevention of COx, especially CO2, formation. (21) Modified BN (22,23) and further boron-containing catalyst candidates, e.g., boron oxides (BOx), (2427) were widely studied to identify the active site. The similar reaction kinetics over BN and BOx were rationalized by surface oxygen functionalization on BN, generating BOx sites as the effective active site in ODHP. (28,29) The conversion was found to increase with higher dilution over boron-based catalysts, which was one of the peculiar kinetic features implying a gas-phase C3H6 formation route. (30) Based on computational results and kinetic measurements, distinct surface-confined and gas-phase mechanisms were, thus, proposed over boron-based catalysts for ODHP. (3133) So far, the only experimental evidence for the existence of a gas-phase route has been the observation of the methyl radical. (34) The gas-phase reaction mechanism and the possibility of free radical involvement beyond the methyl radical remain unknown, which makes it challenging to rationally optimize catalysts for the practical application of ODHP.
In this contribution, we shed light on the intermediates and products evolving in real time in ODHP over BN by operando synchrotron photoelectron photoion coincidence (PEPICO) spectroscopy. Operando PEPICO detects short-lived reactive intermediates, e.g., radicals, ketenes, and enols, desorbed from the catalyst surface (35,36) and, thus, provides direct experimental evidence to understand the ODHP reaction network over BN. A silica-supported vanadia catalyst (VOx/SiO2) was also studied for direct comparison with the catalytic mechanism over BN. Temperature-dependent ODHP experiments in a tubular continuous-flow reactor coupled to the PEPICO endstation also provide temperature profiles of stable species and reactive intermediates. Surface-confined density functional theory (DFT) calculations on boron active sites and gas-phase G4 calculations reveal the formation mechanism of short-lived radical intermediates detected by operando PEPICO spectroscopy. A reaction mechanism for boron-catalyzed ODHP is proposed, encompassing coupled surface-confined and gas-phase reaction steps.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
ODHP as a Function of Temperature over BN and VOx/SiO2
The temperature-dependent ODHP performance over commercial BN and homemade VOx/SiO2 catalysts is compared in Figure 1. Over the BN catalyst, the main products are propene, ethene, and methane at temperatures below 560 C with the propane conversion lower than 21% (Figure 1a). Small amounts of CO and butene isomers (C4H8) are also found at 550560 C. When increasing the temperature so that the C3H8 conversion rises to above 80%, the selectivity to C3H6 decreases with increased formation of CO, CO2, and C4H8. In contrast, the main products over a VOx/SiO2 catalyst are C3H6 and COx (Figure 1b), the latter being predominant at high C3H8 conversion. This indicates that overoxidation can be curtailed using the BN catalyst, especially at low C3H8 conversion. As a result, the total selectivity to hydrocarbons (C3H6, C2H4, and CH4) over BN is significantly higher than over VOx/SiO2 at a comparable C3H8 conversion. For example, the selectivities to C3H6, C2H4, and CH4 are 61.6%, 18.7%, and 19.7%, respectively, at a C3H8 conversion of 2.9% over a BN catalyst (Figure 1c), which corresponds to essentially full selectivity to hydrocarbons. Increasing the C3H8 conversion to 9.7%, the selectivity to C3H6, C2H4, and CH4 is still ca. 92%, while 0.8% C4H8 and 8.3% CO are also formed over BN (Figure 1d). This can be compared with only 27.3% selectivity to C3H6 with dominant production of CO and CO2 already at 5.3% conversion over VOx/SiO2 (Figure 1e).
Figure 1
Figure 1. Influence of reaction temperature on catalytic ODHP performance over (a) BN and (b) VOx/SiO2; the product selectivity over BN at C3H8 conversions of (c) 2.9% and (d) 9.7%, as well as over VOx/SiO2 at C3H8 conversion of (e) 5.3%. Reaction conditions: 20 mg catalyst, feed: 10% C3H8 and 20% O2 balanced in Ar; 66 mL/min total flow rate.
The selectivity to CO2 is always low over BN, and CO is the main overoxidized product at high temperatures, as opposed to the VOx/SiO2 catalyst, where CO2 dominates. Another difference between the BN and VOx/SiO2 catalysts is that small amounts of C4H8 isomers are only observed over BN. The product distributions over BN and VOx/SiO2 catalysts (Figure 1) are consistent with previous results. (34,37) However, the origin of the high selectivity to C3H6/C2H4 and the inhibition of overoxidation to COx (especially to CO2) over BN have remained unclear so far and are the subject of this study.
Operando PEPICO Spectroscopy
Operando synchrotron PEPICO spectroscopy (38,39) was utilized to detect stable products and elusive ODHP intermediates over BN and VOx/SiO2 catalysts. The PEPICO setup is described in Figure S1. In brief, a gas mixture of C3H8, O2, and Ar is fed into the preheated catalyst bed, and the continuous gas flow, with reactants, intermediates, and final products, expands from the reactor into high vacuum, forming a molecular beam. Molecular beam sampling freezes out the chemistry and suppresses quenching. The molecular beam travels through the skimmer and crosses the monochromatic vacuum ultraviolet beam in the ionization region. Soft photoionization yields photoelectrons and -ions, which are detected in delayed coincidence. Ion mass analysis yields photoionization mass spectra and, combined with electron kinetic energy analysis, allows us to plot photoion mass-selected threshold photoelectron spectra (ms-TPES) to identify the spectral carrier(s) of individual m/z peaks isomer-selectively. (40,41) Mass spectra and ms-TPES are first compared at 600 C based on a temperature-programmed surface reaction (TPSR) of adsorbed propane (C3H8) on BN from 500 to 700 C (Figure S2). During ODHP operation, the m/z 42 peak dominates over both BN and VOx/SiO2, while the C2H4 (m/z 28) and CH4 (m/z 16) signals are much more intense over BN than over VOx/SiO2 (Figure 2a,b), consistent with the product distribution seen in Figure 1. A blank experiment without catalyst shows negligible product formation under the same conditions (Figure S3).
Figure 2
Figure 2. (ac) ODHP photoionization mass spectra over BN and VOx/SiO2 at 600 C at different photon energies; ms-TPES of (d) m/z 42, (e) m/z 44, (f) m/z 56, (g) m/z 58, (h) m/z 15, and (i) m/z 41 over BN and VOx/SiO2 at 600 C; reaction conditions: 10 mg of catalyst, gas feed: 10% C3H8 and 20% O2 balanced in Ar; 10 mL/min total flow rate, 0.3 bar pressure; reference spectra are marked by arrows, see Table S1 for details.
Moreover, small m/z 56 and 58 peaks are only visible over BN (Figure 2a). Based on the comparison of the m/z 42 ms-TPES with the propene and ethenone ketene reference spectra (Figure 2d), this peak can be assigned exclusively to C3H6 over VOx/SiO2 and to a mixture of C3H6 and C2H2O over BN. The ms-TPES of m/z 56 (Figure 2f) is assigned to a mixture of methylketene (C3H4O, CH3CHCO), 2-propenal (C3H4O, CH2CHCHO), and C4H8 (1-, 2-butene, and isobutene) over BN, based on reference and FranckCondon simulated spectra. In contrast, only C4H8 is observed in Figure 1a as a final product. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that oxygenated species such as ketenes are observed as ODHP intermediates, likely because ketene and methylketene are unstable and evade detection by GC/MS even if present in the effluent. (42,43) This illustrates the advantage of operando PEPICO in detecting elusive intermediates to provide mechanistic insights into catalytic mechanisms. (40) The m/z 58 peak can be ascribed to propen-m-ol isomers (m = 1, 2, or 3, C3H6O) and propionaldehyde (Figures 2g and S4c), also newly observed in ODHP. Acetaldehyde and its high-energy tautomer, ethenol (vinyl alcohol, C2H4O, CH2CHOH), are detected over BN at m/z 44 (Figures 2e and S5). In addition to propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde, formaldehyde (HCHO) is also detected by its ms-TPES at m/z 30 (Figure S4b). The oxygenates (C13 aldehydes, C23 ketenes, and C23 enols) found over BN represent minor peaks compared to C3H6, C2H4, and CH4. However, the desorption of these intermediates from the catalyst surface, as implied by their detection, is crucial in preventing overoxidation (vide infra). Finally, the ion peaks at m/z 15 and m/z 41 detected over BN (Figure 2c) can be unambiguously assigned to methyl (CH3•) and allyl (C3H5•) radicals, respectively, based on the corresponding ms-TPES (Figure 2h and i).
Motivated by the observation of oxygenates (aldehydes, ketenes, and enols) and radicals over BN, we further investigated the temperature-dependent product distribution over BN from 550 to 700 C. The corresponding photoionization mass spectra are shown in Figure S6, while the integrated signals are presented in Figure 3. With increasing temperature, the CH3• signal increases together with that of CH4, indicating that methane is likely formed by gas-phase H addition to CH3• (see below). Since CH3• is formed from C3H8, the observed C2H4 from the counter fragment C2H5 comes as no surprise. The C3H5• signal appears at 600 C (Figure S7) and continues to increase with temperature, suggesting increasing C3H6 decomposition at elevated temperatures. The rising C3H8 conversion and C3H6 activation affect the final C3H6 signal in opposite ways and result in constant propene abundance when the temperature is increased further from 650 to 700 C (Figure 3). Ethenol, methylketene, and propen-m-ol signals all increase from 550 to 650 C, but become stable or even decrease from 650 to 700 C (Figure 3), implying that they may also be converted further to other products. The m/z 56 signal taken at a photon energy of 9.5 eV, which can be assigned primarily to C4H8 and, to a lesser degree, methylketene (Figures S8 and S9), also increases from 550 to 650 C and finally becomes relatively stable. The simultaneous increase of the C4H8 signal together with CH3• and C3H5• from 550 to 650 C suggests a possible gas-phase CH3• + C3H5• reaction to yield C4H8. The relatively stable m/z 56 signal between 650 and 700 C is due to the simultaneous consumption of C4H8 by dehydrogenation, yielding C4H6 (m/z 54, Figure 3). CH3• is produced by desorption from the catalyst surface after propane activation, because C3H8 cracking is not observed in the blank experiment (Figure S3). It is worth noting that C2 radicals, such as C2H5•, have not been observed. We consider the role of oxygenates in the ODHP mechanism and compare it with that in combustion. Notably, typical combustion temperatures are significantly higher than the ODHP reaction temperatures of 550600 C. However, analogous reactions are likely to occur on ODHP catalytically, since the catalyst provides a dehydrogenation active site. (44) Vinyl alcohol (CH2CHOH) is less stable than its tautomer acetaldehyde (45) by ca. 42 kJ mol1 and yet plays a role in the partial oxidation of hydrocarbons and alcohols. (46) The detection of C23 enols in this work implies a possible low-temperature surface-mediated enol formation side reaction in BN-catalyzed ODHP. In contrast to VOx/SiO2, full oxidation to CO2 is inhibited over BN, which is explained by only weakly surface-bound partially oxidized intermediates, which readily desorb into the gas phase and are detected. The observation of ketenes has mechanistic ramifications, as well. The presence of ethylketene (CH3CH2CHCO) is evidenced by the m/z 70 ms-TPES (Figure S10) over BN. Ketenes have been widely reported as the key intermediates for olefin formation, (3,35,47,48) which indicates an oxygenate-driven route in BN-catalyzed ODHP and will be addressed computationally in the following section.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Photoionization mass spectrum peak integrals as a function of temperature in ODHP over BN; reaction conditions are the same as in Figure 2.
Computational Insights
Quantum chemical calculations were carried out for both surface-catalyzed and gas-phase reactions to reveal the origin of the reactive radicals and oxygenates detected over BN by operando PEPICO. Analogous theoretical calculations on ODHP over VOx-based catalysts have been carried out previously and, in light of propane overoxidation over VOx, are not discussed here further. (4951) Although a crystalline B2O3 (101) surface was used to simplify the BN active surface, it is accepted that the active catalyst surface corresponds more closely to amorphous boron oxide in ODHP. (34) To simulate the real catalyst surface, ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations were first carried out for the B2O3 (101) surface at the high temperatures of 15002000 K to achieve a disordered BOx surface within the tractable time window of 24 ps (Figure S11). O2 chemisorption on BOx forms peroxo-like >BOOB< species preferentially, which is regarded as the main site for C3H8 activation. (28,31) O2 chemisorption is modeled on the amorphous BOx surface, and the adsorption configurations of C3H8 on the >BOOB< site are optimized (Figure S12). After CH cleavage at the >BOOB< site (Figure 4a), C3H8* will transform into coadsorbed >BOn-C3H7* and >BOH* over a barrier of 0.31 eV (* represents adsorbed species). The formed n-C3H7* is strongly bound to the surface with nearly 3 eV desorption energy and will further dehydrogenate to yield C3H6* over a barrier of only 0.57 eV. Alternatively, CC cleavage in C3H8 on >BOOB< can also occur (Figure S13), but the cracked CH3* and C2H5* radicals are also strongly bound to the surface at desorption energies of 3.69 and 3.48 eV, respectively. This is much higher than the alternative C2H4 formation energy of 1.01 eV (Figure S14), which suggests that free radicals are not desorbed from the >BOOB< site.
Figure 4
Figure 4. DFT-calculated energy profile for (a) CH cleavage over the >BOOB< site and (b) CC cleavage over the >BO dangling site on the disordered B2O3 (101) surface. The corresponding minima and transition states are shown on the right.
AIMD simulations of the BOx surface also yielded a >BO dangling site occurring at 1000 K (Figure S15). This site was also proposed to be active in boron-catalyzed ODHP. (31) The CC bond can be cleaved on the >BO dangling site (Figures 4b and S16). Here, C3H8* transforms into either >BOC2H5*/CH3* or >BOCH3*/C2H5*. The desorption energy of CH3* is only 0.18 eV from the former. For >BOCH3*/C2H5*, calculations predict prompt C2H5* dehydrogenation to C2H4* (Figure S17), implying that C2H5* is unlikely to desorb into the gas phase. Moreover, C3H6 can also be activated on the >BO dangling site, readily forming gas-phase C3H5• with a desorption energy of 0.33 eV (Figure S18). These results identify the >BO dangling site as the source for the experimentally observed CH3• and C3H5• radicals. In addition to the CC cleavage route on the >BO dangling site, we also found a comparable CH cleavage barrier toward n-C3H7* and i-C3H7* (Figure S19). The adsorbed i-C3H7* intermediate will spontaneously transform into C3H6 by terminal H abstraction (Figure S20). In contrast, n-C3H7* may either transform into C3H6 over a barrier of 0.17 eV or propagate into the gas phase with a desorption energy of only 0.39 eV (Figure S21). Despite surface-catalyzed n-C3H7* to C3H6 conversion having a lower energy barrier, n-C3H7* desorption may effectively compete, especially at high temperatures. The propyl radical intermediate was, however, not detected experimentally in the gas phase, in contrast to CH3• and C3H5•. We first have to consider gas-phase radical chemistry to conclude whether this indicates nondesorption or a short gaseous lifetime of n-C3H7.
In addition to radicals, gas-phase reactive oxygenates are also detected by operando PEPICO. As guided by previous gas-phase mechanistic insights on, for example, the role of enols in combustion, (44) we applied the G4 composite method to address possible gas-phase reaction pathways. The formation of enols and ketenes may proceed similarly to a combustion chemistry pathway. Enols, for instance, are likely produced via partial hydrocarbon oxidation on the catalyst surface in ODHP, followed by desorption into the gas phase. In the gas phase, the allyl + O2 reaction affords formaldehyde (observed in Figure S4) and the H2CC(O)H radical, in an exothermic reaction (2.75 eV) after an entrance barrier of 0.55 eV, (52) which is likely reduced in the presence of BN. The H2CC(O)H radical can either be dehydrogenated to yield ketene or hydrogenated to vinyl alcohol or acetaldehyde (m/z 44, Figures S5, S8), which were all observed in this study. On the one hand, we found computationally that C23 enols (C2H4O, C3H6O) can be converted to C23 ketenes (C2H2O, C3H4O) via dehydrogenation by, for example, a CH3• radical over a low energy barrier of 0.46 eV for C2H2O and 0.40 eV for C3H4O (Figure S22). This H abstraction step of propen-1-ol by CH3• after CH3• desorption is included in Figure 4b for comparison. Since computational results do not rule out n-C3H7• desorption from the surface, we also investigate H abstraction from enols via nC3H7•, which was found to be associated with a similar energy barrier to that with CH3• radicals (Figure S23) and could contribute to quenching n-C3H7• by C3H8 formation. Hydrogen abstraction from C23 enols by the resonantly stabilized C3H5• involves a high-energy transition state at 0.8 eV (Figure S24); that is, the allyl radical is unlikely to participate in the first hydrogen transfer from enols. However, the second H-transfer step, to finally yield ketenes, is computed to be downhill, irrespective of the H-acceptor free radical. These observations imply that enols can easily dehydrogenate into ketenes in the presence of the H-acceptor radical species CH3•, n-C3H7•, oras far as the second H-transfer step is concernedC3H5•. However, n-C3H7• radicals are also H-donor agents. In fact, a barrier-free H-transfer reaction is predicted once an n-C3H7• radical collides with CH3•, C3H5•, or another n-C3H7• associated with the release of 2 to 3 eV of energy (Figure S25), contributing to rapid quenching of n-C3H7• by H loss to C3H6 and the associated formation of CH4, C3H6, or C3H8. At a 0.3 bar reactor pressure, the gas-phase collision frequency is on the order of 108 s1 at 600 C, which implies prompt quenching of the n-C3H7• radical in the presence of H acceptors. Therefore, the absence of n-C3H7• radical detection can be ascribed (1) to the more favorable surface-confined n-C3H7* to C3H6 reaction path compared to n-C3H7* desorption as well as (2) to its low expected lifetime in the gas phase under the reaction conditions and in the presence of H-acceptors. Since ketene and methyl radicals are both observed in the gas phase, and surface methyl and ethyl species are predicted (Figure S13), ethylketene may also be formed by the methylation of methylketene or ethylation of ketene. The formation of ethylketene is proven by operando PEPICO (Figure S10). Methylketene and ethylketene are known as precursors for C2H4 and C3H6 via decarbonylation. (35) However, these processes can only take place over a high barrier (>3 eV) in the gas phase (Figure S26). Therefore, ketene decarbonylation is surface catalyzed and proceeds over BN to form CO and olefins, both of which desorb from the surface easily. This also explains how CO is formed in the ODHP over BN. Additionally, the detection of gas-phase oxygenates only over BN suggests they are prone to desorb from the BN surface, which also prevents deep oxidation to CO2.
Reaction Mechanism
By combining operando PEPICO experiments and quantum chemical calculations, we have formulated a comprehensive ODHP mechanism over BN in Figure 5, involving coupled surface-confined and gas-phase reactions. Gas-phase radicals and reactive oxygenates are detected by operando PEPICO. Calculations predict that C3H8 transforms into n-C3H7* on the >BOOB< site (Figure 5a), which only desorbs as C3H6 after further dehydrogenation. C3H8 can also dissociate to CH3* and C2H5*. However, both are strongly surface-bound and do not desorb from the >BOOB< site. On the >BO dangling site, n-C3H7* and i-C3H7* are both formed after CH activation (Figure 5b). However, i-C3H7* yields C3H6 instantaneously, and only n-C3H7* may desorb due to its low desorption energy of 0.39 eV. Yet, n-C3H7• is not detected in the gas-phase experimentally, which can be attributed to the more favorable surface reaction to C3H6 and its short gas-phase lifetime in the presence of H acceptors. Additionally, >BOC3H6* can be activated to form C3H5* on the >BO dangling site, followed by easy desorption to form the allyl free radical. CC cleavage on the >BO dangling site has two different reaction routes, forming >BOC2H5*/CH3* or >BOCH3*/C2H5*. The former yields gas-phase CH3•, and the latter will transform to C2H4. Thus, free radicals detected by operando PEPICO spectroscopy are derived from the >BO dangling site. Partial oxidation products can also be observed in the gas phase with BN as a catalyst (Figure 5c). The desorption of oxygenates from the catalyst surface indicates weak bonding, which is crucial in preventing catalytic oxygenation of oxygenates into CO and CO2.
Figure 5
Figure 5. ODHP mechanism over the BN catalyst, including coupled surface-confined and gas-phase reaction routes.
After the desorption of radicals and oxygenates, gas-phase H-abstraction chemistry will be initiated (Figure 5c). Aside from the self-reaction to form C2H6, the CH3• free radical can also abstract an H from enols. Gas-phase dehydrogenation into ketenes with H-acceptors (e.g., CH3•, n-C3H7•, or, in the second step, C3H5•) can take place readily based on G4 calculations (Figures S22S24). Meanwhile, CH3•, n-C3H7•, and C3H5• will form CH4, C3H8, and C3H6 after abstracting an H. The formed methylketene and ethylketene can then undergo surface-assisted decarbonylation to form C2H4 and C3H6 (Figure 5c). This new C3H6 and C2H4 formation mechanism is driven by methyl- and ethylketene in BN-catalyzed ODHP, which is observed for the first time. In addition to surface-bound propyl radicals (C3H7*) previously considered to be the only intermediate in C3H6 formation, this establishes partially surface-oxidized oxygenates such as C3 enols (propen-1-ol, C3H6O) as precursors to C3H6 via a gas-phase reaction sequence including dehydrogenation, methylation, and subsequent surface-confined ethylketene decarbonylation over the BN catalyst (Figure 5c). C4H8, only observed over a BN catalyst, can be ascribed to the gas-phase CH3• + C3H5• association reaction. Importantly, oxygenates desorb easily from the BN surface before deep oxidation to CO2, and ketene decarbonylation is the main CO source over BN. This explains why carbon monoxide is the main deeply oxidized byproduct over BN with negligible CO2 formation. In contrast, CO2 is dominantly formed over vanadium-based catalysts, and no oxygenates can be observed in the gas phase, due to strong binding to the surface and rapid catalytic deep oxidation. Additionally, quantum chemical calculations indicate that n-C3H7• could escape from the catalyst surface. If so, n-C3H7• will participate in gaseous reactions with H-donor or H-acceptor species to form C3H6 or C3H8 (Figure 5c). In this coupled surface and gas-phase route (Figure 5c), H-acceptor radicals and H-donor oxygenates (or n-C3H7•) react via fast H migration. The selectivity to CO rises with temperature (Figure 1a), which suggests a competitive advantage of the oxygenate route at high temperatures. Although CO is an undesirable ODHP product, it is still more useful than CO2, making the transformation of C3H8 and O2 to olefins and CO over boron-based catalysts alluring. Calculations also revealed the different role of chemistry at the >BOOB< main and the >BO dangling sites. Such insights help tune the catalytic activity in a targeted way and may guide the rational design of boron-based catalysts with higher selectivity.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In addition to propyl as the main precursor of propene, we identify a new H-acceptor radical- and H-donor oxygenate-driven propene formation route by operando PEPICO spectroscopy. Partially oxidized enols dehydrogenate in the presence of H-acceptor radicals to ketenes, which then transform to olefins by decarbonylation. Ethylketene is the observed precursor of propene in this route, which is unique to BN and absent over a vanadium-based catalyst. Moreover, we report that free radicals are derived solely from the >BO dangling site, as they are strongly bound at the >BOOB< main site. These results not only help explain the ever-elusive ODHP reaction mechanism on BN but also aid to design next-generation boron-based catalysts for enhanced ODHP performance.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 