I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Dehydrogenation of Propane and n-Butane Catalyzed by Isolated PtZn4 Sites Supported on Self-Pillared Zeolite Pentasil Nanosheets
Abstract
Propene and 1,3-butadiene are important building-block chemicals that can be produced by dehydrogenation of propane and butane on Pt catalysts. A challenge is to develop highly active and selective catalysts that are resistant to deactivation by Pt sintering and coke formation. We have recently shown (Qi , J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 2136421378) that these objectives can be met for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) using atomically dispersed Pt anchored to neighboring SiOZn-OH groups bonded to the framework of dealuminated zeolite BEA. In the present study, we demonstrate that significantly superior performance can be achieved using self-pillared pentasil (SPP) zeolite nanosheets as supports. Following catalyst reduction in H2, atomic resolution, scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM), and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) indicate that Pt is stabilized in structures well approximated as (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt. These species are highly active, selective, and stable for PDH to give propene and for n-butane dehydrogenation (BDH) to give 1,3-butadiene. No catalyst deactivation was observed after 12 days of time on stream, and the selectivity remained at nearly 100% for PDH conducted at 823 K and a weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) of 1350 h1. The apparent rate coefficient for PDH on this catalyst is significantly higher than that reported previously for Pt-containing catalysts. For BDH at 823 K and a WHSV of 3560 h1, the selectivity to butene isomers and 1,3-butadiene is 98.9%, and the selectivity to 1,3-butadiene is 45%. We propose that the high catalyst stability observed during PDH and BDH is a consequence of a large fraction of the Pt-containing centers being located on the external surface of the zeolite nanosheets, where nascent coke precursors can desorb before condensing to form coke.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:catalytic dehydrogenation light alkane isolated PtZn4 zeolite nanosheet
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propene and 1,3-butadiene are important basic building-block chemicals, the former being used to produce polypropylene, propylene oxide, acrylic acid, and acrylonitrile (16) and the latter as a monomer in the manufacture of synthetic rubbers and a range of other polymers. (7) Thermal catalytic dehydrogenation of propane and butane are attractive routes for the production of propene and 1,3-butadiene. Both reactions are catalyzed by Pt, which exhibits high activity for CH bond activation and a relatively low activity for undesired CC bond cleavage. (4,820)
Because dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) and n-butane (BDH) are endergonic reactions, high temperatures (>773 K) are required for significant product yields; (2023) however, at these temperatures, rapid catalyst deactivation results from coke generation and Pt sintering. (6,8,24) Investigations of PDH on Pt-containing catalysts (15,17,18,2427) have shown that as the Pt nanocluster diameter decreases below about 2 nm, the PDH activity, propene selectivity, and resistance to coke formation increase. (22,23,25) Decreasing the size of Pt clusters can be achieved by alloying with, for example, Cu, (28) Zn, (8,10,14,21) Fe, (29) Ga, (30) In, (31) Sn, (1,11,24) Mn, (32) Co, (33) or La. (4) The second metal reduces the activation barrier for propene desorption relative to that for further dehydrogenation, thereby minimizing catalyst deactivation by coke formation. (16,22,23,34) Another promising approach to achieving highly active, selective, and stable Pt catalysts is to synthesize isolated Pt atoms stabilized by interactions with nonprecious metals that are chemically bonded to the support. (8,10,20) However, it is challenging to achieve and maintain complete isolation of Pt atoms in such environments at high temperatures. (8,10,3537)
We have recently demonstrated stabilization of Pt predominantly as isolated atoms by interaction with SiOZn-OH nests formed by grafting Zn into silanol nests of dealuminated zeolite β (DeAlBEA). (21) Characterization of the resulting catalyst (referred to as PtZn-DeAlBEA) showed that, upon activation, Pt is present as structures approximated as (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt, which are highly active, selective, and stable for PDH. Motivated by these findings, we asked whether the activity and stability of such sites could be further enhanced by placing them on the external surface of a zeolite support rather than within zeolite micropores.
To address this question, we chose self-pillared pentasil (SPP) zeolite as a support. (3840) This material comprises nanosheets approximately 2 nm thick that contain a network of ca. 0.5 nm intra-zeolite micropores. (41,42) Moreover, the house-of-cards arrangement of the nanosheets creates a network of mesopores with diameters of 27 nm. (8,40) A further reason for selecting SPP zeolite is that it has a high concentration of hydrogen-bonded (H-bonded) silanol groups that are distributed mainly on the external surfaces of the nanosheets. If we assume that the SiOH groups are all present on the external SPP surface, we calculate a total SiOH density of 5.9 nm2 and a H-bonded SiOH density of  3.7 nm2. (43,44) By contrast, H-bonded SiOH groups in the silanol nests of DeAlBEA, located within the zeolite channels, have a density of 7.9 nm2. (21)
A two-step method was used to prepare isolated PtZn sites supported on SPP. First, SiOZn-OH groups were grafted onto the support hydroxyl groups, (40) and these groups were then used to anchor Pt atoms. We designate such catalysts as xPt-yZn-SPP (x and y represent the weight percentages of Pt and Zn, respectively). These materials were characterized by a set of complementary methods to demonstrate the high dispersion of the Pt. Taken in aggregate, the characterization data suggest that Pt was present in structures well approximated as (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt and that these species are the active centers for alkane dehydrogenation catalysis. The intrinsic PDH activity of (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP for propene formation (with 100% selectivity) is higher than that reported for (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA, (21) and the new catalyst has a much higher resistance to deactivation than (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA. Likewise, the intrinsic activity of (Si-O-Zn)4Pt-SPP for 1,3-butadiene formation is twice that reported for (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA. Under the conditions of these reactions, (Si-O-Zn)4Pt-SPP is 45% selective for 1,3-butadiene and is resistant to deactivation in continuous operation.
Results
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Characterization of SiOZn-OH on SPP
X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure S1) of SPP and 2.4Zn-SPP exhibit peaks at 2θ = 710 and 2225 that are characteristic of MFI zeolite, with no obvious features characteristic of ZnO, suggesting a high dispersion of Zn. The elemental composition of each sample was determined by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) and is presented in Table S1. The measured weight loadings of Zn closely match the intended metal loadings, confirming the quantitative introduction of the metal in the synthesis. BrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) measurements (Table S2) show that SPP had a surface area of 598 m2/g, which decreased only slightly upon introduction of Zn to produce 2.4Zn-SPP. FTIR spectra (Figure 1A) show that SPP exhibits both isolated SiOH groups, with bands at approximately 3740 cm1, and H-bonded SiOH groups, with bands at about 3550 cm1. (4446) After pyridine adsorption, two signals appeared, at 1596 and 1445 cm1, ascribed to pyridine interacting with H-bonded SiOH groups. (44,45,47) After introduction of Zn, the band characterizing H-bonded SiOH, at 3550 cm1, decreased in intensity (Figure 1A), showing that Zn had reacted with the SiOH groups. Exposure of SPP-grafted Zn to pyridine resulted in new bands at 1609 and 1450 cm1, assigned to pyridine interacting with Zn Lewis acid sites (Figure 1B). (45) The intensities of these bands increased nearly linearly with Zn loading in the range of 0.82.4 wt % (Figure 1C), consistent with the grafting of isolated Zn atoms onto the SPP support. Notwithstanding the reaction of H-bonded SiOH groups upon the grafting of Zn, the intensities of the IR bands characterizing pyridine H-bonded to hydroxyl groups (at 1596 and 1445 cm1, Figure 1B) increased when 0.8 wt % Zn was introduced, but then decreased as more Zn was added. The initial increase in intensity of the bands characterizing H-bonded pyridine suggests the formation of H-bonded SiOH and ZnOH groups, similar to what was reported for Sn-SPP and Hf-SPP. (38,44) Additional evidence for the generation of ZnOH groups comes from the observation of a negative band for hydroxyl vibrations in difference spectra recorded after pyridine adsorption. This feature (Figure S1C,D) provides direct evidence for the interaction of pyridine with hydroxyl groups, either SiOH and/or ZnOH. The negative peaks are centered at 3730 and 3740 cm1 for SPP and Zn-SPP, respectively. Moreover, the negative peak intensity at 3740 cm1 characterizing Zn-SPP increased with Zn loading, suggesting that Zn Lewis acid sites were grafted onto the surface of SPP as SiOZnOH species.
Figure 1
Figure 1. IR spectra: Comparison of the hydroxyl stretching region (A) and the region characterizing adsorbed pyridine (B) of SPP and Zn-SPP. (C) Integration of the IR intensity of the band characterizing adsorbed pyridine, at 1609 cm1. (D) UVvis spectra characterizing SPP and Zn-SPP. (E) UVvis Zn edge energy characterizing Zn-SPP samples. (F) UVvis signal intensity normalized by a Zn molar amount.
UVvis spectra of Zn-SPP samples (Figure 1D) show that, after the grafting of Zn, the broad absorption centered at ca. 240 nm ascribed to SiOH groups lost intensity, (48,49) a result of the reaction of these groups with Zn. A new absorption appeared, centered at ca. 195 nm, a position matching that reported for charge transfer of grafted Zn cations interacting with lattice O2 in a zeolite framework. (50,51) When the Zn loading was increased to 1.6 wt % and then to 2.4 wt %, the UVvis absorption intensity increased relative to that for 0.8Zn-SPP. A further increase in Zn loading to 4 wt % produced signals at around 220260 nm, which suggest the formation of ZnOx oligomers. (52) This suggestion is supported by the observation that the photon absorption energy, attributed to ligand-to-metal charge transfer (LMCT) from O2 to isolated Zn(II), is 6.25 eV for 0.82.4Zn-SPP (Figure 1E) and is somewhat lower for 4Zn-SPP, 6.1 eV. Both values are much higher than that for bulk ZnO, 3.15 eV. (53) Thus, the UVvis band-edge data indicate that for Zn-SPP samples with Zn loadings of 0.82.4 wt %, all of the Zn atoms were grafted to the zeolite framework and did not generate ZnOx species, consistent with the IR spectra of adsorbed pyridine (Figure 1C).
We note further that the UVvis absorption intensity per Zn atom increased linearly with Zn loading (Figure 1F), suggesting that, although the Zn atoms were grafted to the zeolite framework, there were nonetheless weak interactions between neighboring Zn sites when the Zn loadings were >0.8 wt %. A possible reason for these interactions is that, in addition to charge transfer from O atoms of the zeolite framework to Zn atoms (Si-O  Zn), the O atoms of ZnOH groups also facilitate charge transfer from O2 to neighboring Zn2+ ions (SiOZn(HO)  Zn), thereby enhancing the intensity of the UVvis signal. Therefore, the UVvis spectra suggest that the SiOZn(OH) species of 2.4Zn-SPP are not bonded with each other but rather interact via dative bonding.
Cs-corrected, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron micrographs (HAADF-STEM) of 2.4Zn-SPP are presented in Figure S2A,B. Individual Zn atoms could not be distinguished in the images of 2.4Zn-SPP, notwithstanding the high resolution and high quality of the images that is made evident by the clear observation of the lattice structure of the MFI zeolite nanosheet (Figure S2B). However, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) imaging (Figure S2C), IR spectra of adsorbed pyridine, and ICP data (Table S1) provide direct evidence for the existence of Zn species. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the grafted Zn atoms were highly dispersed. More incisive STEM data characterizing 2.4Zn-SPP were not attainable because of the low atomic number of Zn and the weak contrast with the atoms of the zeolite support.
In summary, the IR spectra, including those characterizing adsorbed pyridine, the UVvis spectra, and the STEM images, demonstrate that Zn Lewis acid sites were grafted onto SPP zeolite, giving a structure that we propose to be SiOZn-OH. The UVvis spectra suggest that these neighboring Zn sites interact weakly with each other but are not bonded to each other.
Characterization of Pt Grafted onto SiOZn-OH Nests
Pt was added to 2.4Zn-SPP following the method described in the Experimental Section of the Supporting Information (SI). ICP data showed that all of the Pt was introduced onto the zeolite (Table S1). XRD (Figure S1) and BET measurements (Table S2) confirmed retention of the MFI zeolite framework and the surface area of the support after introduction of Pt. HAADF-STEM images of as-prepared 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP, 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP, and 0.8Pt2.4Zn-SPP are presented in Figures 2 and S2D,E. The images of 0.8Pt2.4Zn-SPP shown in Figure 2A,B clearly demonstrate that the card-like morphology of the SPP zeolite was retained after introduction of Pt, as were ca. 2 nm-thick nanosheets comprising the zeolite. HAADF-STEM images of 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP acquired after H2 pretreatment at 873 K are presented in Figure 2CE. Figure 2C shows a uniform distribution of Pt aggregates with diameters of 12 nm after H2 pretreatment. As presented in Figure S3, the card-like morphology of SPP zeolite was well retained after PDH catalysis (details of the catalysis experiments are presented below). EDS images of Pt and Zn acquired from these areas show that the Pt and Zn species were present in the same areas and almost uniformly distributed within them. When the magnification of Figure 2C is increased (Figure 2D), isolated bright spots can be seen within the yellow square of Figure 2D. Figure 2E shows that these aggregates consist of single Pt atoms (marked with red circles) and what appear to be pairs of Pt atoms (marked with yellow circles). A three-dimensional (3D) intensity distribution map of Figure 2E is presented in Figure 2F, showing the existence of both Pt single atoms (marked with red circles) and possible pairs (marked with yellow circles). A plausible explanation for the appearance of such pairs of Pt atoms in Figure 2E,F is as follows. Work by Tsapatsis and co-workers (40) indicates that the structure of SPP consists of thin lamellae, about 2 nm thick, which are randomly stacked such that the spacing between lamellae is 27 nm. In a separate study, Tsapatsis and co-workers (43) reported that the Si NMR spectrum of calcined SPP shows mostly Q4 and Q3 Si atoms, in proportions that agree with the number of silanol groups expected on the external surface of MFI nanosheets, 3.7 SiOH/nm2. This result means that on average the silanol groups are spaced 0.5 nm apart. However, the UVvis spectra of 2.4Zn-SPP presented in Figure 1DF suggest that SiOZn(OH) species formed upon the introduction of Zn are clustered, suggesting that the silanol groups on SPP are not distributed uniformly but are present, instead, as clusters. Because the Pt atoms are anchored to sets of closely spaced SiOZn(OH) groups, this result suggests that the Pt atoms will also appear in clusters.
Figure 2
Figure 2. HAADF-STEM images of as-prepared 0.8Pt2.4Zn-SPP (A, B), H2-pretreated 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP (CE), and (F) 3D intensity distribution of (E).
X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) characterization of 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP was done after reducing the sample in flowing H2 at 873 K for 60 min (Figure 3). The Pt LIII-edge white line intensity of the 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP XANES spectrum is similar to that of metallic Pt used as a standard, but the white line energy is shifted by +1.5 eV from that of metallic Pt (Figure S4). This shift is similar to that observed for supported PtZn clusters, but the overall shape of the XANES spectrum differs from that reported for the clusters. (14) Analysis of the EXAFS data revealed the presence of a PtZn scattering path, with a PtZn distance of 2.49  0.15 Å, which is similar to that for the PtZn alloy, (10) PtZn clusters, (8) and isolated PtZn complexes. (21) Analysis of the EXAFS data collected at 723 K indicates a PtZn coordination number (CN) of 3.5  0.9 (Table 1 and Figure S5). The addition of a PtPt scattering path to the EXAFS model resulted in unrealistic parameters (Figure S6 and Table S3). For comparison, we note that PtZn clusters containing roughly three Pt atoms in each (8) are characterized by a PtPt CN of ca. 2.1 (and the PtPt CN of PtZn alloy nanoparticles ranges from 1.6 to 3.6 (10,14)). Therefore, the XAS data imply that, following H2 reduction, the Pt atoms in 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP were virtually atomically dispersed, consistent with the STEM images shown in Figure 2E,F.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (A) XANES spectra and (B) magnitude of the Fourier-transformed (k2-weighted) EXAFS data at the Pt LIII edge. XAS data at this edge characterizing 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP after various treatments: 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP treated in flowing 20% H2/He at 873 K for 60 min (black) and postcatalytic reaction 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP treated in flowing 20% H2/He at 873 K for 60 min followed by exposure to a flowing C3H8 + He mixture (PC3H8 = 25.3 kPa) at 723 K (red). Data were collected with samples at 723 K.
Table 1. Summary of EXAFS Fit Parameters at the Pt LIII-Edge Characterizing 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP after Treatments under Various Conditionsa
sample scattering path CN R (Å) Δσ2 × 103 (Å2) ΔE0 (eV) R-factor reduced χ2
pretreated PtZn-SPP PtZn 3.5  0.9 2.49  0.15 11  2 5  4 0.06 10
postcatalytic reaction PtZn-SPP PtZn 5.0  1.2 2.52  0.12 11  2 1  3
aNotation: CN, coordination number; R, scattering path length between the absorber and the scattering atom; Δσ2, mean-square relative displacement; ΔE0, inner potential correction. The R-factor is a measure of how closely the fit resembles that data. The reduced χ2 is a statistical fitting metric normalized by the degrees of freedom. All data were collected with samples at 723 K. The range in k was 3.612.0 Å1, and the fit range in the radial distance was 1.43.0 Å.
The EXAFS data taken after H2-pretreated 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP had been used for PDH catalysis indicate an increase in the intensity of the feature assigned to PtZn backscattering (Figure 3b). EXAFS modeling of the data (Table 1 and Figure S7) recorded after PDH showed that the PtZn CN may have increased, from 3.5  0.9 to 5.0  1.2 (although the errors in the data make this a weak statement), with the PtZn distance being a bonding distance (Table 1), but, again, there was no evidence of PtPt backscattering. The white line position of the 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP shows a slight shift to a higher energy in the XANES spectra (Figures 3 and S4) after the reaction, consistent with a change in the coordination geometry of the platinum species in the catalyst. Therefore, taken together, the XAS data indicate an extremely high dispersion of Pt, consistent with the STEM images shown in Figure 2E,F. However, in view of the errors inherent in the EXAFS data, we cannot exclude the possibility that a small fraction of platinum was present in clusters characterized by a PtPt scattering path that was not distinguishable in the data fitting.
The results suggest that new PtZn bonds might have formed during PDH, perhaps by restructuring of the PtZn species resulting from migration of the Zn and/or Pt atoms at high temperatures of catalysis. The formation of isolated structures approximated, on average, as PtZn4-5 during PDH is attributed to the higher strength of PtZn (0.49 eV) than that of PtPt bonds (0.46 eV). (10) We emphasize that the cohesive energy associated with the formation of one PtZn bond from PtPt and ZnZn pairs was calculated to be 0.17 eV, indicating that the formation of PtZn bonds is favored energetically. (10,54)
Catalyst Performance
The PDH activities and selectivities of 0.2Pt-SPP, 2.4Zn-SPP, and xPt2.4Zn-SPP are presented in Figure 4 for a fixed set of reaction conditions in a once-through flow reactor. The reaction conditions were chosen to be identical to those used in our investigation of PtZn-DeAlBEA. (21) 0.2Pt-SPP exhibited an initial propane conversion of 6.5% and a propene selectivity of 96.6%. However, both the conversion and selectivity decreased very rapidly, within an hour on stream. Almost no PDH activity (conversion < 1%) was observed for 2.4Zn-SPP, and the propene selectivity was less than 60%. By contrast, 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP pretreated in 20% H2 in He exhibited high activity (propane conversion 24.5%), high propene selectivity (>99%), and excellent stability over 12 h of continuous operation (Figure 4B, black square and red circle). For the chosen reaction conditions, the stable propene productivity was 150.3 mol of C3H6 (g Pt)1 h1. Thermogravimetric analysis showed that 1.9 wt % coke had been deposited on the 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP after 12 h of continuous PDH (Figure S11). Thus, very little coke was generated under our experimental conditions, about 1.2 × 104gcoke/gC3H6, which means that the selectivity of direct propane to coke conversion is negligible.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Catalyst performance data. (A) Propane conversion and propene selectivity for PDH catalyzed by 0.2Pt-SPP and 2.4Zn-SPP; (B) effects of Pt loading of xPt2.4Zn-SPP (x = 0.20.8 wt %) on propane conversion and propene selectivity for PDH; (C) effects of Zn loading of 0.4Pt-xZn-SPP (x = 0.82.4 wt %) on propane conversion and propene selectivity for PDH; (D) long-term stability test of PDH catalyzed by 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP at 823 K and (E) long-term test of BDH catalyzed by 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP at 823 K. Reaction conditions (AC): 0.01 g of catalyst, C3H8/He = 5/15 mL (NTP) min1 for 0.2Pt-xZn-SPP (x = 0.8, 1.6, and 2.4), C3H8/He = 10/30 mL (NTP) min1 and 20/60 mL (NTP) min1 for 0.4Pt2.4Zn-SPP and 0.8Pt2.4Zn-SPP, respectively; reaction temperature, 823 K. Reaction conditions (D): 0.1 g of catalyst, C3H8/He = 2.5/7.5 mL (NTP) min1, reaction temperature, 823 K; WHSV = 1350 h1. (E): 0.04 g of catalyst, C4H10/He = 2/80 mL (NTP) min1; reaction temperature, 823 K; WHSV = 3560 h1. All reactions were performed at atmospheric pressure. Note: WHSV is defined as the ratio of the mass flow rate of alkane to the mass of Pt in the catalyst.
The influence of Zn loading on catalyst performance was evaluated for a constant Pt loading of 0.4 wt %. As the Zn loading increased from 0.8 to 2.4 wt %, the propene selectivity remained >99% (Figure 4C). However, the propane conversion increased somewhat as the Zn loading increased from 0.8 to 1.6 wt %, becoming almost constant for Zn loadings >1.6 wt %. Increasing the Zn loading (at a constant Pt loading) also improved the catalyst stability, suggesting that the catalyst stability increases as more neighboring Zn sites are available to isolate and anchor the Pt atoms.
The influence of Pt loading was investigated separately with 2.4Zn-SPP (chosen as the near-optimal Zn loading for stabilizing Pt atoms) (Figure 4B). When the Pt loading was increased from 0.2 to 0.4 wt % (at a constant Zn loading of 2.4 wt %), the total flow rate of propane used for each experiment was increased correspondingly to maintain the space velocity (now defined as the molar flow rate of propane per Pt atom) constant. Virtually identical activity, selectivity, and stability were observed for reactions carried out with Pt loadings of 0.2 and 0.4 wt %. For 0.8Pt2.4Zn-SPP, the selectivity was similar to that observed for lower Pt loadings, but the stability and activity were somewhat lower, indicating that the Pt loading should be kept <0.4 wt % for the as-synthesized sample to maintain catalyst activity and stability.
To determine the long-term stability of the atomically dispersed Pt, a 12-day test was carried out using 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP at a WHSV of 1350 h1 (Figure 4D). An initial induction period was observed, during which the PDH conversion gradually increased and then finally stabilized at about 42.5%. The increase in activity during the induction period may be attributed to the increase in the number of Zn atoms associated with each Pt atom, suggested by the XAS data (see Table 1). After the induction period, there was negligible loss in activity and selectivity during the next 200 h. Long-term PDH catalyzed by 0.04Pt0.36Zn-DeAlBEA under similar conditions (PC3H8 = 25.3 kPa, WHSV = 1477 h1, 823 K) was characterized by a lower propane conversion of ca. 34% and about 10% deactivation after 160 h. (21)
The loss of Zn was also investigated following H2 pretreatment of the catalyst and after long-term operation in the flow reactor for PDH. ICP analysis showed that after the H2 pretreatment, the Zn content of 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP had decreased from 2.4 to 1.2 wt %, and therefore, the Zn/Pt molar ratio decreased from 36 to 18. The data thus show that although some Zn loss occurred, the remaining Zn content (Zn/Pt = 18) was sufficient to stabilize the Pt atoms. The Zn content after 12 days of PDH was found to be about 0.5 wt %, and the final Zn/Pt ratio was about 7.5, which is still more than 45 Zn atoms required for the Pt to remain dispersed and the catalyst activity to be stable. These results demonstrate that, although the loss of Zn occurs, the Zn species in active PtZnx centers are stable, as evidenced by the long-term stability of the catalytic activity and selectivity.
n-Butane dehydrogenation (BDH) was tested with 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP at a WHSV of 3560 h1 at 823 K, and results are presented in Figure 4E. During a 20 h test, the selectivity to butene isomers (1- and 2-butene) and 1,3-butadiene was 98.9%, and the selectivity to 1,3-butadiene reached 45%. The n-butane conversion decreased continuously with time on stream, accompanied by the generation of coke. Thermogravimetric analysis showed that 3 wt % coke had accumulated on the catalyst after 20 h on stream.
Figure 5A shows the dependence of the rate of PDH on the partial pressure of propane and the reaction temperature. These data were acquired using a high space velocity so as to keep the propane conversion <5% and thereby minimize the influence of propene hydrogenation. Similar data for n-butane dehydrogenation to butenes and 1,3-butadiene are shown in Figure 5B,C. Here too, the space velocity was kept high to keep the n-butane conversion <3% and thereby minimize secondary reactions (e.g., the secondary dehydrogenation of 1-butene to give 1,3-butadiene). For all three reactions, the data in Figure 5AC demonstrate that the increase in the rate of primary product formation decreased with increasing reactant partial pressure and that this effect was smaller at higher temperatures.
Figure 5
Figure 5. PDH and BDH kinetics. (A) Rate of propene formation catalyzed by 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP as a function of propane partial pressure at various temperatures; the solid lines for C3H6 formation represent a fit of data to eq 1. (B) Rate of butene (1-butene and 2-butene) formation catalyzed by 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP at various n-butane partial pressures at various temperatures; the solid lines for C4H8 formation represent a fit of data to eq 2. (C) Rate of 1,3-butadiene formation catalyzed by 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP at various n-butane partial pressures at various temperatures; the solid lines for C4H6 formation represent a fit of data to eq 4. Reaction conditions (A): 0.01 g of catalyst, total flow rate = 150 mL (NTP)/min; (B and C): 0.01 g of catalyst, total flow rate = 240 mL (NTP)/min.
Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The kinetics of PDH catalyzed by PtZn-SPP can be interpreted in terms of the proposed mechanism for PDH presented in Scheme 1. The postulated sequence of elementary reactions is identical to that used to describe PDH occurring on (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt sites in PtZn-DeAlBEA (21) and in previous density functional theory (DFT) studies of PDH on Pt4 clusters (55) and PDH on PtZn (10) intermetallic alloy catalysts. The catalytic cycle is initiated by propane adsorption (Step 1a) and followed by the dissociation of a CH bond in the methyl group of adsorbed propane (Step 2a), which leads to the formation of a propyl group and a H atom bonded to Pt. The abstraction of a second hydrogen also occurs on the Pt atom (Step 3a), followed by hydrogen desorption (Steps 4a and 5a). Propene desorption (Step 6a) completes the catalytic cycle.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Proposed Propane Dehydrogenation Mechanism
We propose that the physisorption of propane is quasi-equilibrated and that dissociation of the methyl group of adsorbed propane is rate-limiting. On the basis of these assumptions, we infer that the dependence of the PDH rate on propane partial pressure is described by eq 1 (see the Supporting Information for a derivation of eq S1). In this equation, rC3H6, kd1, KC3H8, and PC3H8 represent the rate of propene formation, the rate coefficient for cleavage of the first CH bond (i.e., the rate-limiting step), the propane equilibrium adsorption constant according to the Langmuir formalism, and the propane partial pressure, respectively.
(1)
The solid curves in Figure 5A show that eq 1 represents the kinetics of PDH well. The intrinsic activation energy determined from an Arrhenius plot for the dehydrogenation rate coefficient (kd1) is 67.4 kJ/mol. (21) This value is significantly lower than that for 0.04Pt0.36Zn-DeAlBEA, 90 kJ/mol. (21) The enthalpy of adsorption for propane on Pt single sites, determined from a vant Hoff plot for the adsorption equilibrium constants (KC3H8), is 18.9 kJ/mol, which is also lower than that for 0.04Pt0.36Zn-DeAlBEA, 29.3 kJ/mol.
The kinetics of BDH to butenes (1- and 2-butenes) and 1,3-butadiene are developed on the basis of the reaction mechanism presented in Scheme 2A. The dehydrogenation of n-butane to 1-butene begins with the adsorption of n-butane (Step 1b) and the subsequent cleavage of a CH bond in the methyl group of adsorbed n-butane (Step 2b). Formation of 1-butene then occurs via steps 3b6b, which are analogous to Steps 3a6a for PDH. The formation of 2-butene occurs via a sequence of reactions similar to that involved in forming 1-butene, shown as Steps 1c6c in Scheme 2A. Investigations of BDH on PtZn-DeAlBEA have shown that 1-butene and 2-butene rapidly equilibrate and that 1,3-butadiene is produced primarily by adsorption and dehydrogenation of 1-butene (steps 1d5d in Scheme 2B). (56)
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Proposed Mechanisms of n-Butane Dehydrogenation to Butene (A) and 1-Butene Dehydrogenation to 1,3-Butadiene (B)
The rate expressions for the formation of butene (1-butene and 2-butene) are given by eq 2. The principal assumptions underlying this expression are that the kinetics for producing the two butene isomers cannot be differentiated because of their rapid equilibration and that the rate-limiting step for butene formation is cleavage of the first CH bond (Steps 2b and c in Scheme 2A). It was also assumed that under the conditions of the experiments reported here, competitive adsorption of butene and 1,3-butadiene was not important relative to the adsorption of n-butane because the product concentrations were low (<3%) relative to the reactant concentrations. In eq 2, the symbols of rC4H8, kdB, KC4H10, and PC4H10 represent the rate of butene formation, the rate coefficient for cleavage of the first CH bond, the n-butane Langmuirian adsorption equilibrium constant, and the n-butane partial pressure, respectively. Details of the derivation of eq S2 are given in the SI. Figure 5B shows that eq 2 gives a good representation of the n-butane dehydrogenation rate data. The activation energy for the first dehydrogenation step, n-butane to butenes, is 60.7 kJ/mol.
(2)
1-Butene generated by dehydrogenation of n-butane is the precursor of 1,3-butadiene. (56) The rate of 1,3-butadiene formation is well described by eq 3, which is based on the reaction mechanism presented in Scheme 2B. In deriving this simplified expression, we assumed that n-butane adsorbed competitively with butenes because the data were obtained at low butene concentrations (low conversions, <2.2%), and we exclude the competitive adsorption of 1,3-butadiene because its concentration is very low (<0.6% of all C4 compounds and <22% of all C4 products). In eq 3, the symbols rC4H6, kdBD, KC4H8, and PC4H8 represent the rate of 1,3-butadiene formation, the rate coefficient for the first CH bond cleavage, the Langmuirian adsorption equilibrium constant for butene, and the butene partial pressure, respectively. The derivation of eqn S3 is given in the Supporting Information.
(3)
The links between eqs 2, 3, and S35 show how the rate of 1,3-butadiene formation, rC4H6, can be expressed in terms of PC4H10 as given in eq 4 (which is derived in the Supporting Information, eqs S32S38). Figure 5C shows that eq 4 satisfactorily describes the rate of 1,3-butadiene formation. Values of kdBD and KC4H8 were obtained at each temperature by fitting of the rate data to eq 4. This approach was used to determine the activation energy for 1-butene dehydrogenation (75.3  0.1 kJ/mol) and the enthalpy of adsorption of butenes (50.8  1.5 kJ/mol).
(4)
The intrinsic activation energy for PDH and for the two steps involved in BDH (n-butane to butenes and 1-butene to 1,3-butadiene) and the adsorption enthalpies of propane, n-butane, and butenes on (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP and (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA centers are listed in Table 2. The activation energy for PDH on (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP is lower than that on (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA, and the propane adsorption enthalpy is also lower for reaction on the former than on the latter catalyst. The intrinsic activation energies for the butene to 1,3-butadiene conversion on (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP and on (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA are higher than that for n-butane dehydrogenation, indicating that the dehydrogenation of butenes is energetically more demanding than the dehydrogenation of n-butane. (56) Consistent with expectation, the butene adsorption enthalpy is greater in magnitude than that for n-butane on each catalyst, and the adsorption of butenes is stronger than the adsorption of n-butane. The much stronger adsorption of butenes than of n-butane helps facilitate the secondary dehydrogenation process, resulting in high 1,3-butadiene selectivity.
Table 2. Intrinsic Dehydrogenation Activation Energy and Enthalpy of Adsorption of PDH and BDH on (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP and (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA Centers
  PDH BDH first step BDH second step
model of catalytically active species intrinsic Ea, kJ/mol propane ΔHads, kJ/mol intrinsic Ea, kJ/mol n-butane ΔHads, kJ/mol intrinsic Ea, kJ/mol butenes ΔHads, kJ/mol
(Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP 67.4  0.1 18.9  0.1 60.7  0.2 29.5  0.1 75.3  0.1 50.8  1.5
(Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA 90 29.3  0.3 80.8  0.1 40.1  0.4 90.3  0.1 62.2  0.1
Comparison of the intrinsic activities of the various Pt-containing catalysts used for PDH and BDH is challenging because of differences from one research group to another in reported reaction temperatures, feed compositions (including whether H2 was included in the feed), and WHSV. Thus, reported catalyst productivities and apparent turnover frequencies cannot be used to compare the intrinsic activities of various catalysts. As discussed in recent investigations of PDH and BDH, (1,21,56) a more appropriate metric of the intrinsic activity of a catalyst is the apparent first-order rate coefficient for the first step in the dehydrogenation process because this is also the rate-limiting step. For PDH, we refer to this apparent rate constant as kf-PDH, which has units of [mol C3H6/(g Pt·h·bar)]. The value of kf-PDH is determined from eq 5 on the assumption that the catalyst bed performs as a plug-flow reactor (PFR). In this equation, FC3H8o and PC3H8o are the feed molar flow rate and the partial pressure of propane, respectively, X is the conversion of propane, θH2 is the molar ratio of H2 to propane in the feed, m is the number of moles of Pt in the reactor, and KePDH is the equilibrium constant for propane dehydrogenation. A derivation of eq S5 is given in the Supporting Information (eqs S39S46).
(5)
A similar approach can be used to determine the apparent rate constants for the rate-limiting steps of n-butane dehydrogenation to butenes, k1f-BDH. This rate constant is given by eq 6.
(6)
Here, FC4H10o and PC4H10o are the feed molar flow rate and partial pressure of n-butane, respectively, X is the conversion of n-butane, and KeBDH-1 is the equilibrium constant for n-butane dehydrogenation to butenes.
The apparent rate constant for dehydrogenation of butenes to 1,3-butadiene, k2f-BDH, is obtained by assuming that this process occurs in an ideal plug-flow reactor at low conversions (and at the lowest conversions, the design equation for this reactor matches that for a perfectly mixed stirred-tank reactor (CSTR)). (56) On the basis of this assumption, the value of k2f-BDH is given by eq 7 (a derivation of eq S7 is given in the Supporting Information (eqs S48S54)). In this equation, RBD is the observed rate of formation of 1,3-butadiene and Sel.BD is the selectivity to 1,3-butadiene.
(7)
Figure 6A and Table S4 in the Supporting Information provide a comparison of the values of kf-PDH determined for (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP with those for (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA and those for Pt-containing catalysts reported in the literature. The value of kf-PDH for (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP is 770 mol of C3H6/(g Pt·h·bar) at 823 K, higher than that for (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA, 563 mol of C3H6/(g Pt·h·bar) (catalyst 1P in Figure 6A). We also note that the value of kf-PDH for (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP is significantly higher than that for the reported Pt-containing (monometallic and bimetallic) catalysts, which range from 20 to 490 mol C3H6/(g Pt·h·bar) at 823873 K.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Comparison of the values of (A) kf-PDH for 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP with values reported for Pt-containing catalysts (catalysts 1P-21P, open symbols) and comparison of the values of (B) k1f-BDH and (C) k2f-BDH for 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP with values reported for Pt-containing catalysts (catalysts 1B11B, open symbols). Further details on each catalyst are given in Tables S4 and S5 in the Supporting Information. The black dashed lines are estimates based on the kf value at 823 K and apparent activation energy (propane dehydrogenation for (A), n-butane to butenes for (B) and butenes to 1,3-butadiene for (C)) for 0.2Pt2.4Zn-SPP. Note that kf-PDH, k1f-BDH, and k2f-BDH have units of [mol C3H6/(g Pt·h·bar)], [mol C4H8/(g Pt·h·bar)], and [mol C4H6/(g Pt·h·bar)].
The values of k1f-BDH and k2f-BDH are shown in Figure 6B,C and Table S5. The value of k1f-BDH characterizing (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP is close to that characterizing (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA (catalyst 1B in Figure 6B), slightly lower than that characterizing 0.1Pt6Mg2Ga/S10 (catalyst 4B in Figure 6B), and significantly greater than that reported for all of the other Pt-containing catalysts. The value of k2f-BDH characterizing (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP is about 2 times higher than that of (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA, and it is much higher than that characterizing the reported Pt-containing catalysts.
The deactivation of Pt-containing PDH and BDH catalysts is usually described by an apparent first-order rate constant, kdeac. This is a useful metric, but it must be recognized that kdeac is a function of the reaction temperature and the concentration of alkene (and/or dialkene) in contact with the catalysts. The product concentration is important because deactivation occurs via product readsorption and further dehydrogenation to form adsorbed alkyne intermediates (C-R), which then dissociate to produce carbonaceous species, the precursors to coke formation. (57) Pt dispersion and alloying are two other important variables affecting the rate of coking. Wu et al. (18) have shown that the extent of coking of MgO-supported Pt decreases with decreasing Pt nanoparticle size andfor a given particle sizewith increased alloying with Sn. The convolution of these catalyst and processing properties complicates the comparisons of the reported stability data for Pt-containing catalysts. Thus, although Table S4 includes values of kdeac reported by various authors, it is virtually impossible to draw any meaningful conclusions by comparing them. Thus, we restrict our discussion of catalyst stability to a comparison of (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP sites with (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA sites because these two catalysts incorporate predominantly atomically dispersed Pt anchored by Zn that were investigated for PDH and BDH under identical conditions.
As shown in Figure S9, (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP sites exhibit a much higher stability for both PDH and BDH than do (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA sites. At 823 K, at a reactor inlet propane partial pressure of 25 kPa and a WHSV of ca. 1400 h1, kdeac = 0.002 h1 for (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA sites (after 160 h), whereas almost no deactivation was observed for (Si-O-Zn)4Pt-SPP sites (after 280 h). Figure S10 shows, at 823 K, an n-butane inlet partial pressure of 2.5 kPa, and with similar initial 1,3-butadiene formation rates of about 0.45 s1, kdeac = 0.13 h1 for (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA sites and 0.042 h1 for (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP sites. Thus, for both PDH and BDH, (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP sites exhibit significantly higher resistance to deactivation than (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA sites.
A central conclusion of this work is that the higher stability of the former sites can be attributed to their location on the planar external surfaces of the SPP zeolite support, wherebecause of the lack of mass transport limitationsthe local concentration of the product alkene or dialkene is lower than it would be within the narrow pores of DeAlBEA. Moreover, the approximately 2 nm thickness of the nanosheets also contributes to the minimal internal mass-transfer resistance of the SPP zeolite. (41,42)
The higher dehydrogenation activity of (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP sites than of (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA sites might also be explainedat least in partby a greater degree of coordinative unsaturation in the Pt centers on SPP than those on the β zeoliteand thus more bonding sites for reactants. This suggestion is based on the smaller PtZn CN for the SPP-supported than for the DeAlBEA catalyst, as indicated by the EXAFS data. We further note that the literature shows that the value of CN for PtZn decreases from 7 to 8 for a Pt1Zn1 intermetallic alloy (14,58,59) to 46 for (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA (21) and to about 4 for the (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP, consistent with the increase in the specific activity of these catalysts. It is also possible that differences in the PtZnO bond angles for Pt supported on SPP vs DeAlBEA alter the electron density on Pt in a manner that contributes to the superior activity of Pt anchored by Zn on SPP.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
We have shown that Pt atoms can be dispersed by reaction with clusters of SiOZn-OH groups grafted onto the surfaces of self-pillared pentasil (SPP) zeolite nanosheets. HAADF-STEM images, in combination with X-ray absorption spectra, demonstrate that Pt is stabilized predominantly as isolated atoms bonded to neighboring SiOZn-OH sites and that, upon H2 reduction, these sites form isolated (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt species that are the active centers for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to propene and n-butane dehydrogenation (BDH) to 1,3-butadiene. (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP sites exhibit a higher PDH activity than (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA sites and a significantly higher activity than sites on other Pt-containing catalysts. For PDH taking place in a flow reactor at 823 K and a WHSV of 1350 h1, almost no deactivation of (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP was observed after 12 days on stream, with a selectivity of nearly 100% to propene. (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP was found to exhibit an ca. 2-fold higher activity for 1,3-butadiene formation in BDH than (Si-O-Zn)4-6Pt-DeAlBEA and a significantly higher activity than that reported for other Pt-containing catalysts. For BDH at 823 K and a WHSV of 3560 h1, the selectivity to butene isomers and 1,3-butadiene was 98.9% over a period of 20 h, with a 1,3-butadiene selectivity reaching 45%. Furthermore, (Si-O-Zn)4-5Pt-SPP exhibited the best stability among the reported Pt-containing catalysts, concurrent with its exceptionally high 1,3-butadiene formation rate.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 