 <quotes>

1. "Zeolite H-Beta (provided by BASF) with a Si/Al ratio of 13 (determined by ICP analysis) was suspended in 13 M nitric acid at 373 K by stirring for 20 h to obtain DeAlBEA."

2. "Afterward, the DeAlBEA was impregnated with an aqueous metal nitrate solution. Specifically, the molar concentrations of Zn2+ and Pt2+ solutions were about 0.044, 0.087, and 0.13 mol/L for M/Al ratios (mols of metal introduced per mol of Al in zeolite H-Beta prior to dealumination) of 0.12, 0.24, and 0.36, respectively."

3. "Pt was added to Zn-DeAlBEA as described in Experimental Methods."

4. "HAADF-STEM images of as-prepared 0.04Pt-0.36Zn-DeAlBEA at various resolutions are presented in Figure 3A-F. The white spots evident in panels A and B of Figure 3, taken with resolutions of 5 and 2 nm, respectively, might at first be taken as evidence of nanoparticles. However, when the resolution is increased to 1 nm (Figure 3C), it is clear that these spots comprise isolated Pt atoms."  

5. "Figure 3C-F shows that the Pt atoms are spaced 3.6-11 Å apart. We emphasize that these distances are markedly longer than bonding distances and specifically longer than those in PtZn alloy nanoparticles, for which distances of 2.6-92.86 Å have been reported, consistent with the value of 2.84 Å for bulk crystalline PtZn alloy."

6. "EXAFS data characterizing the as-synthesized 0.04Pt-0.36Zn-DeAlBEA were collected at 298 K with the sample pressed into a pellet." 

7. "For in situ treatment of the sample, approximately 40 mg of sample was loaded into an in situ XAS cell. Continuous EXAFS spectra were collected to provide in situ XANES data during treatment of the catalyst in flowing He as the temperature was ramped from 300 to 823 K at a rate of 10 K/min followed by a dwell of 30 min at 823 K."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

22. Yes, the article describes techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports. Specifically, it discusses dealuminating zeolite H-Beta with nitric acid to create silanol nests, then impregnating the dealuminated zeolite (DeAlBEA) with aqueous solutions of Zn(NO3)2 and (NH3)4Pt(NO3)2 to introduce isolated Zn and Pt sites into the silanol nests (Quotes 1-3). 

23. Yes, the article evaluates encapsulating Pt atoms within Zn-functionalized zeolite supports to enhance catalyst stability for propane dehydrogenation. It shows that isolating Pt atoms within SiOZnOH nests in dealuminated zeolite Beta results in stronger Pt-Zn bonding interactions that help stabilize the Pt sites during reaction. This leads to enhanced catalyst lifetime compared to unsupported Pt nanoparticles (Quote 4-5).

24. Yes, the article investigates preparation methods like controlling Zn and Pt impregnation concentrations and loadings to optimize metal dispersion on the zeolite support. Lower Zn and Pt loadings result in better Pt atom isolation and dispersion within the zeolite silanol nests (Quote 1-3).

25. Yes, the article utilizes in-situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) to study propane dehydrogenation catalysts under reaction conditions. It reveals changes in Pt and Zn oxidation states during He pretreatments and propane dehydrogenation through analysis of XANES spectra (Quote 6-7).

26. Yes, the article employs high-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) to characterize Pt-Zn interfaces and dispersion in the zeolite catalysts. It provides images showing isolated Pt atoms spaced apart in the zeolite support (Quote 4-5). 

27. Yes, the article uses X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectroscopy to probe changes in Pt and Zn oxidation states during pretreatments and propane dehydrogenation. It shows reduction of both metals during He pretreatments and stable oxidation states during catalysis (Quote 6-7).

28. No relevant quotes. The article does not evaluate different reactor types for propane dehydrogenation. It focuses on catalyst synthesis and characterization.

</English version answer>


<Chinese version answer>

22. 是的,该文章描述了合成分离的单个位点在分子筛支撑物中的技术。具体来说,它讨论了用硝酸对β型分子筛进行脱铝以创建硅醇巢,然后在脱铝分子筛(DeAlBEA)中浸渍Zn(NO3)2和(NH3)4Pt(NO3)2的水溶液以引入隔离的Zn和Pt位点到硅醇巢中(引用1-3)。

23. 是的,该文章评估了将Pt原子封装在功能化分子筛Zn支撑物中以增强丙烷脱氢催化剂的稳定性。它表明,将Pt原子隔离在脱铝β型分子筛中的SiOZnOH巢中,可以形成更强的Pt-Zn键合作用,这有助于稳定Pt活性位点在反应过程中(引用4-5)。

24. 是的,该文章研究了诸如控制Zn和Pt浸渍浓度和负载量以优化金属在分子筛支撑物上的分散的制备方法。较低的Zn和Pt负载量导致Pt原子在分子筛硅醇巢中的隔离和分散性更好(引用1-3)。

25. 是的,该文利用原位X射线吸收光谱技术研究反应条件下的丙烷脱氢催化剂。它通过分析XANES谱揭示了He预处理和丙烷脱氢过程中Pt和Zn氧化态的变化(引用6-7)。

26. 是的,该文章采用了高角环形暗场扫描透射电子显微技术来表征Pt-Zn界面和在分子筛催化剂中的分散状态。它提供了图像,显示了隔离的Pt原子间隔分布在分子筛支撑物中(引用4-5)。

27. 是的,该文章利用X射线吸收近边结构谱技术探究了预处理和丙烷脱氢过程中Pt和Zn氧化态的变化。它表明,He预处理期间两种金属都发生了还原,而在催化过程中氧化态保持稳定(引用6-7)。  

28. 没有相关引用。该文章没有评估不同的反应器类型用于丙烷脱氢,它专注于催化剂的合成和表征。

</Chinese version answer>
