I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


A Viewpoint on the Refinery of the Future: Catalyst and Process Challenges
During the last century, economic and population growth have stirred a significant increase in oil demand, with a current consumption of 100 Mb/d and an additional demand growth of ca. 1 Mb/d per year expected for the next decade. (1) This is mostly due to (i) the gradual access to automotive and aviation transportation in less-developed regions and (ii) the expansion of the chemical sector. At the same time, efficiency improvements, very important advances in clean energy generation and strong environmental concerns along with stricter policy, are expected to result in a far slower growth in the use of oil-derived fuels in the second half of the decade and in a likely decrease in demand after 2030.
In sharp contrast, the demand for petrochemicals is not expected to stop growing in the foreseeable future. In the next two decades, oil demand for petrochemicals is expected to increase by ca. 4 Mb/d per year, achieving 34% of the total oil market in 2040, in contrast to the current 15%. (1) Considering that demand for transportation fuels has shaped the current petroleum refining industry, (3) this change in patterns (see Figure 1 for liquid fractions derived from oil) has stirred intense research and development activities into oil-conversion processes that maximize lighter products at the expense of fuels. Light olefins (in the C2C4 range) and aromatics (mostly benzene, toluene and xylenes, BTXs), the most valuable building blocks for the chemical industry, are produced mostly via Steam Cracking and as byproducts of fluid catalytic cracking (FCC). (2) To fill their demand gap, different on-purpose technologies, such as propane dehydrogenation (PDH), olefin metathesis (MTS), (4) methanol-to-olefins (MTO), (5) oxidative coupling of methane (OCM), or FischerTropsch Synthesis (FT), (4,6) have gained a great deal of attention, with a large number of industrial plants based on these technologies being commissioned over the past decade along with an important expansion of the hydrocracking and steam cracking capacity worldwide. (7,8) While technologies based on nonoil feedstocks (i.e., methanol or syngas derived from coal and paraffins from shale gas) are attractive alternatives to classical refining, (i) stricter environmental constraints related to the use of coal, (ii) an expected decline in shale gas production by 2030, and (iii) a lower demand for oil-derived fuels all point to crude, and specially naphtha, (8) as the primary source for building blocks in the decades to come and call for the development of much more flexible refining processes. In this scenario, refining companies are striving to increase by a factor of 4 the current 815% average yield to chemicals in well-integrated complexes.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Forecasted increment in the demand for different liquid oil fractions (modified from ref (2)).
In this Viewpoint (this is neither a review nor a research article), we analyze the main consequences of this shift over the way refineries will operate in the future. We focus on the most important challenges from the process and catalyst development points of view and highlight research opportunities and undergoing efforts. Figure 2 depicts our vision on the Refinery of the Future, where CO2 neutrality, including greening of the footprint, maximal production of chemicals, zero-waste generation, and renewable energy integration should, in our opinion, play a key role.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Artistic impression of the Refinery of the Future, where oil refining (bottom left quadrant) is fully integrated with a petrochemical facility (top left quadrant). Renewable energy (top right quadrant) integration within the refining process results in nearly a CO2-neutral operation.
We believe, in the future, refineries will be built around oil-to-chemicals (OTC) processes, in contrast to the current state of the art where oil is first fractionated and the resulting streams are treated separately to manufacture an extensive portfolio of products. The first challenge at hand for OTC technologies is the nature of crude itself: the presence of heavy hydrocarbons leads to very rapid coke formation, not only in the conversion processes but also especially in process lines and support equipment. The main strategies to avoid these issues consist of different pretreatment units designed to avoid downstream fouling. These include the use of molten salts (Li2CO3, Na2CO3, and K2CO3 mixture) to reduce carbon and tar deposition, (9) hydrotreating, and/or integrated solvent deasphalting units (1015) and partial vaporization of the feed. (1622) Once the crude has been conditioned, two main OTC approaches are being considered: (i) a steam cracking centered process (14,22,23) and (ii) fluid catalytic cracking centered processes (see Figure 3).
Figure 3
Figure 3. Two mainstream refining approaches to maximize the production of chemicals: steam cracking centered process (A) and fluid catalytic cracking centered process (B).
Although steam crackers have been traditionally used to process light hydrocarbons, operation under harsher conditions allows the processing of much heavier feedstocks. Table 1 summarizes recent examples where yields of ethylene and propene of up to 23 and 13 wt % can be achieved by directly feeding full-range pretreated crudes. (15,16,22,24,25) Although very attractive, to maximize yields to chemicals, recent patents suggest the individual processing of the heaviest and lightest components: the lightest fraction of crude is directly steam cracked, while the heaviest part is first hydrotreated and then cracked in a steam cracking unit. The resulting residue is hydrocracked and recycled to the steam cracker (see Figure 3A). (14,23,26,27) Byproducts from the separation zone (pyrolysis fuel oil) and hydrogen are recycled after separation. Following this integrated approach, about 60% crude oil conversion to light olefins has been reported, with 29 and 20 wt % yield of ethylene and propylene, respectively. (14,26) The main limitations of this approach are the low propylene to ethylene ratio and the very high energy consumption (and therefore significant CO2 emissions). Therefore, integration of renewable energy in such a scheme would result in a much more sustainable process. Recycling/treatment of limited resources (water, hydrogen) and integration of more intelligent control systems should be also considered to reduce both environmental impact and operating costs. (28)
Table 1. Steam Cracking Yields Obtained Using Several Heavy Feedstocks
feedstock conditions yield C2H4 yield C3H6 yield BTEX
VGO (15) Tfurnace = 775 C 17.8 wt % 12.6 wt % 3.6 wt %
pretreated VGO (15) steam/oil (w/w) = 0.75 29.2 wt % 19.5 wt % 3.9 wt %
Alaskan crude (16) Tfurnace = 829 C 19.3 wt % 12.2 wt % -
Tfurnace = 843 C 20.4 wt % 12.1 wt % -
Arabian light (22) steam/oil (w/w) = 1.2 18 wt % 13.8 wt % 5.5 wt %
Agbami crude (clean crude) (22) steam/oil (w/w) = 1 23.5 wt % 12.9 wt % 8.4 wt %
hydrowax (24) Tfurnace = 820 C 28.0 wt % 13.8 wt % -
In contrast to noncatalytic routes, the use of catalytic crackers (the best known unit being the Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC)) allows for a better control over product selectivities. Many FCC systems able to process Vacuum Gas Oil (VGO) and/or oil residues for the production of light olefins have been developed and commercialized, as summarized in excellent reviews by Bogle (29) and Corma et al. (30) Most of these technologies rely on high-severity operations using single or dual riser reactors with optional naphtha recycling. (3159) Injection of recycled naphtha is preferred at the end of the riser or in a second reactor to minimize dry gas and coke yields. (60,61) Downer-type FCC units have been proposed to shorten residence time, reducing back-mixing and therefore maximizing yield to light olefins. (6267) The use of downer technology is preferred in high-severity units because of the higher temperature and catalyst to oil ratio, both calling for shorter residence times. The major concerns in the design of down-flow FCC reactors are associated with the solidgas mixing at the inlet distributor, the uniformity of solid flow inside reactor tubes and the outlet configuration for solidgas separation, issues that have been addressed by several groups. (6771) In general, a downer reactor, which meets good solidgas contact, proper heat transfer, and fast separation at the outlet, will outperform in gasoline and light olefins yield conventional FCC configurations working at the high-severity operation and similar conversion levels, reducing both dry gas and coke formation. Additional iterations of the downer concept, including dual downers, (72) the reprocessing of partially regenerated catalysts, (7375) reactors with different reaction zones such as countercurrent flow, (76) moving-bed (77,78) and small secondary reactors have been proposed. (79) Details about these systems can be found in Table S1. Alternatively, fixed-bed-based processes such as the Olefin Interconversion unit by ExxonMobil, the Olefin Cracking Process by Total/UOP, the Propylur process by Lurgi, the Omega process from Asahi Kasei Chemicals Co. and the Olefin Catalytic Cracking process from Sinopec (8084) have also been developed over the past few years to boost the production of chemicals.
In view of the limitations of single technological solutions, economic analyses suggest that the best configuration consists of the combination of FCC steam crackers for byproduct upgrade (see Figure 3B). (83) In this line, to the best of our knowledge, Sinopec reported the highest combined yield to chemicals starting from a VGO feedstock: BTX (25 wt %) and light olefin (55 wt %) yields by combining a high-severity FCC riser and a hydrocracker unit. (8588)
For the outlined integrated refinery approaches discussed above, the required processing of much heavier feedstocks has brought a number of challenges for catalyst development. In 2018, the global demand for refining catalysts was 831 kt/year and is expected to grow by 1.1% through 2040. The global market is estimated to be at $2.9 billion, with the biggest market share (35%) being for FCC catalysts. (89) Fundamental requirements of FCC catalysts are (i) thermal and hydrothermal stability, (90) (ii) good fluidization properties, (91) (iii) metal poisoning tolerance, (92) (iv) accessibility, and (v) attrition resistance. (93) These requirements become even more important for high-severity units.
Although a wide range of zeolites has been investigated, Ultra Stable Faujasite Y (USY) remains the backbone of industrial FCC catalysis. New Y-zeolites with a higher large-to-small mesopore (>6) ratio than the conventional USY (= 1) have been shown to improve the rates of heavy oil cracking, heavy oil bottoms conversion, and gasoline conversion at short contact times. (94) The use of hierarchical zeolites in oil refining has been a topic of interest for several decades. In general, their use allows for a rapid release of primarily cracked molecules, avoiding overcracking and therefore (in the absence of ZSM-5) displaying moderate selectivities toward low olefins. An additional issue that hierarchical zeolites may find in maximizing chemicals production is related to the harsher cracking conditions applied (vide supra). The development of new zeotypes such as ITQ-21 and ITQ-33 that, by design, offer extra accessibility without compromising stability is therefore highly desired (see Figure 4). ITQ-21 enables diffusion of large molecules and has shown better reactivity properties toward VGO conversion than USY. (95) The combination of ZSM-5 and ITQ-33 leads to ca. 21 wt % yield to light olefins in VGO cracking at 500 C. (96)
Figure 4
Figure 4. View along and dimensions of the biggest channels of different zeolites applied in catalytic cracking: ITQ-33 (A), ITQ-21 (B), USY (C), and ZSM-5 (D).
Together with USY, ZSM-5 is the second most widely used zeolite in catalytic cracking applications. Initially added in smaller amounts as gasoline booster, the use of ZSM-5 also increases propylene production (15 wt %). While conventional FCC processes yield 46 wt % of propylene, oil-to-chemicals technologies are expected to increase this number up to 20 wt %. (97) A key aspect to improve light olefin yield (in addition to the already mentioned higher temperatures) is the modification of the parent zeolite to minimize hydrogen transfer reactions (and consequently aromatization and coke formation). (98) Phosphorus stabilization has been shown to result not only in lower hydrogen transfer ability but also in improved attrition resistance and hydrothermal stability. (99,100) In addition to P, incorporation of Fe2O3 and/or B2O3 leads to higher isobutene (101,102) and LPG (103) yields and to a lower coke production. (104)
An additional issue to overcome is the presence of metal impurities in the feed. The utilization of nickel and vanadium traps (105) (antimony and redox couples such as Fe (II/III)) and passivators such as boron oxide and titanates become necessary. (106108) In spite of significant progress in improving FCC catalyst stability, the lifetime of the catalyst is still low. Typical fresh adding rate is around 15% per day in a commercial unit, and FCC plants can consume about 0.35 kg of catalyst per kg of VGO fed (or about 0.4 kg/kg for resid, or 0.15 kg/kg for heavy atmospheric gas oil). (104)
Hydrocracking is still necessary to improve the H:C ratio and to remove impurities such as S. (109) Recent advances in hydrocracking catalysis (110) have focused on optimization of textural properties and balance of acidity. Catalysts combining amorphous silicaalumina (ASA) with optimized textural properties demonstrated better hydrogen efficiency and higher product yield compared to conventional ASA and alumina-based catalysts. (111) Alternative formulations, including low acidity β-zeolite and noble metals (Pt/Pd), were developed for second-stage hydrocracking catalysts for the production of middle distillate from heavy VGO. (112) In the case of direct treatment of heavy oils, most reported catalysts are based on bimetallic systems, with the combination of Mo and Fe exhibiting the highest catalytic activity. (113,114) The challenge becomes more important for feedstocks with high N (>300 ppm) and S (>0.1 wt %) content. In this case, in addition to the development of specific catalysts, improvements at the reactor level have been shown to be as important as the catalyst itself, with layered catalytic beds combining hydrotreating and hydrocracking are the preferred approach. (115)
In addition to the above, low-quality oils may require several pretreatments before being used in the refinery: visbreaking, coking, and thermal cracking are among the preferred methods. (116) Recently, kaolinite has been explored to upgrade extra-heavy crude oil by reducing its viscosity, density, amount of resids, and metal content under mild thermal cracking conditions (i.e., 530 C). (117,118)
Although very promising, the approaches mentioned above still rely on multistep processes and highly energy demanding separation and pretreatment units. Consequently, the one-step conversion of crude oil is also being considered by most refining companies. One-step conversion would mean far lower capital costs and a much more flexible economy of scale. Since the early 1960s, several technological solutions have been proposed, (30,119) most of them based on steam cracking reactions using fluidizable particles (coke, sand, zeolites) as heat carriers (see Table S2). (9,120135) Yields to light olefins in the order of 35 wt % can be achieved with these processes when operating at high temperatures, short residence times and crude to steam ratios around 1. From the 1980s to 2000s, research and development of such technologies were discontinued. (119,120,136) However, with the beginning of the new century and the changes in demand described above, the interest in new technological solutions for the direct conversion of crude oil has increased exponentially. Recent examples in the patent literature include Exxons steam vapor short contact conversion units comprising a heat transfer bed (including zeolites) operating at high reaction temperature (760790 C) and low partial pressure of hydrocarbons. (137139) Oxygen can also be introduced in the reactor (fixed, fluidized, or moving bed) to burn coke and generate additional heat. A quenching zone is claimed to minimize coke formation and cracking reactions, then valuable products are extracted using suitable separation units. (139) In the same line, we have recently reported the use of multizone fluidized bed reactors for the direct conversion of Arabian light crude to chemicals. (140) In parallel, Saudi Aramco has long embarked on an ambitious multitrack research program for the conversion of crude oil to chemicals. Some of the innovative near to midterm technology tracks under its portfolio including Thermal Crude to Chemicals (TC2C) technology and Catalytic Crude to Chemicals (CC2C) technology have been significantly advanced in close collaboration with strategic engineering and technology partners (McDermot, CLG, TehcnipFMC, Axens) and are currently at or near commercial readiness. These technologies innovatively address the technical challenges posed by the impurities in the crude oil and the wide-boiling fractions by different combinations of pretreatment, separation and catalytic cracking to achieve chemicals conversion yields of 6080% per barrel of crude processed.
It goes without saying that, in this approach, the development of multifunctional catalysts able to maximize conversion of streams with a wide boiling point distribution while removing impurities will be a must. In this sense, one can think of integration of different functionalities within an FCC like matrix. We strongly believe that the sustainability of oil refining will strongly require exemplifying emission standards. In this sense, SOx, NOx and CO2 removal will be necessary. The high content of S and N in coke (along with C) results in important emissions from the regenerators. (141143) To date, refiners have adopted two main approaches for SOx/NOx removal that consist of the direct addition of DeSOx/DeNOx components (i.e., MgO, Al2O3, MgCO3, MgAl2O4 spinels, CaO, CaCO3) to FCC catalysts or as a separate additive. (144147) Regarding the direct incorporation of sulfur-reduction components into FCC catalysts, Zn- and RE-exchanged zeolites seem to withstand sulfur poisoning. (148) For NOx reduction, the use of metal oxide additives such as ceria and copper has been shown to successfully decrease emissions. (149,150) Going forward into one-step processes, all these functionalities should operate on a concerted manner.
When it comes to reduction of CO2 emissions, in addition to improving energy efficiency via process intensification (i.e., reduction in the amount of separation units, currently responsible for more than half of the direct emissions), we believe refiners have a great opportunity to integrate renewable energy not only to carry out the most basic refining operations, but also to generate H2 for hydrotreatment, hydrocracking, and isomerization units. Indeed, because of the relatively low C to H ratio and the high sulfur content of crude oil, more than 14 trillion ft3 of hydrogen are required to run refining processes between 2010 and 2030. (151153) Hydrogen supply in refineries can be collected from internal sources, as catalytic reforming, or external sources as steam reforming and partial oxidation of methane in hydrogen production units (HPU), which results in large CO2 emissions. An alternative consists in the use of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs), using natural gas as feedstock, which combined with a carbon capture and storage (CCS) system could reduce carbon footprint. (154) Moreover, hydrogen-rich outlet streams from hydrotreating and hydrocracking units can be reutilized after purification thus reducing both capital and environmental costs. (155,156) In the long term, if renewable H2 was produced via H2O electrolysis, the environmental benefits would be outstanding. Recent advances in solar and wind energy harvesting along with improved electrolyzer technology may soon facilitate this integration.
Outlook
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Over the next few decades, the energy and chemicals markets will face a very important reshaping. Chemicals represent one of the fastest-growing crude-oil-demand sectors. The use of oil in the petrochemicals sector is likely to become a key source of oil demand after the 2020s. In this scenario, the role of oil as a feedstock rather than a fuel will be greatly emphasized. From an economic and practical point of view, liquid hydrocarbons are the ideal feedstock for the production of carbon-based goods, from polymers to new lightweight materials to pharmaceuticals, solvents, and thousands of products that have become part of our daily lives. Indeed, considering an average price of fuel at $600/ton and petrochemicals at $1200/ton, refineries focusing in the production of petrochemicals are expected to become much more profitable and sustainable.
By converting crude oil directly to chemicals, several energy-intensive refinery processes can be optimized or even eliminated while generating fewer emissions. Direct crude to chemicals processes would result in important cost savings and in an increased operational efficiency for the production of highly valued chemicals, and the approaches could provide a valuable opportunity for future growth and long-term value creation to petrochemical industry. The first-generation OTC processes are already being commissioned at the time of writing this Viewpoint, mostly located in China and the Middle East. (157) Since 2014, ExxonMobil is operating a pretreated light crude oil steam cracker in Singapore with a reported 76% conversion of naphta (and a maximum 50% yield to chemicals) that is being used as a playground for the further development of the technology in Asia. (158) In China, Hengli Petrochemical, Zhejiang Petroleum, Hengyi Industries, and Shenghong started new crude-oil-upgrade plants based on hydrocracking processes to maximize the production of paraxylene. (158,159) In the Middle East, Saudi Arabia plans to triple its petrochemical production capacity by 2030, (160) with the first plant, projected to process 400000 barrels per day of Arabian Light crude via steam cracking in combination with high-severity FCC, expected to become operational by 2025. In addition, Saudi Aramco, in partnership with Axens, TechnipFMC, McDermott and Chevron Lummus Global are in the way to commercial Thermal Crude to Chemicals (TC2C) and Catalytic Crude to Chemicals (CC2C) technologies. (161,162)
Going forward, the objective should be to develop innovative catalytic processes capable of upgrading and directly converting any crude type (sour, sweet, light, heavy) to chemicals in a single step, the main objective of, for instance, the one-step crude to chemicals (1-stepC2C) process proposed by Aramco. In this endeavor, the potential drawbacks of single step technologies, such as the potential production of a limited chemicals portfolio and a complex heat management, have to be carefully weighted in.
In the view of the authors, the Refinery of the Future will be achieved through breakthroughs in three intertwined areas:
Maximization of chemicals production with integrated carbon capture and utilization leading to reduce emissions along with the use of renewable energy in the process.
Process intensification by miniaturization of physical footprint where applicable and overall maximum reduction in the number of unit operations, thereby significantly reducing energy and capital intensity. Integration of new intelligent process control systems will also support this way by implementing rapidly corrective and preventive actions in line with market demands.
Discovery of scalable multifunctional catalysts able to upgrade (removal of impurities) and crack crude to light olefins and aromatics in one single reaction vessel.
Indeed, the success of this Refinery of the Future will rest on the development of economically efficient processes based on minimum steps processes. The combination of new multifunctional catalysts, new reactor concepts, process intensification, and smart integration of renewable energy should result in the development of new processes surpassing a 80% wt. yield to chemicals from crude oil on an economical and environmentally responsible manner.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 