I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Outside my comfort zone


Heat and sand. A restrictive culture. Saudi Arabia didn't seem to have much to offer compared with other countries I had visited. So, after decades spent happily working in laboratories, how did I end up in the Saudi desert, trying to do science at a petrochemical plant? My long career with a developer of petrochemical processing technology began as a research chemist at its main research center near Chicago, Illinois. It wasisa very fine laboratory. We were able to turn out accurate results quickly. An array of pilot plants ran smoothly, cranking out data 24/7. Complex experiments were designed, and definitive conclusions were drawn efficiently.
Things that are easy in the research lab  are hard in the field.
ILLUSTRATION: ROBERT NEUBECKER
In time I took on a new role, helping develop collaborations with other companies in the United States and abroad. This was a fundamental shift for me: While I was still deeply involved in solving scientific problems, there was a new focus on building relationships. Then, a few years ago, someone got the bright idea that I should join a technical team to diagnose and solve performance problems at a customer's propane dehydrogenation facility, which my company had designed, while the plant remained up and running. It was a formidable challenge, and a lot was on the line.
SIGN UP FOR THE SCIENCEADVISER NEWSLETTER
The latest news, commentary, and research, free to your inbox daily
SIGN UP
In some ways, I was not an obvious choice. I knew little about the technology. I had never worked in the field, in a production unit. No one cared. Those encouraging me to join the team praised my vast expertise and experience. They said my fresh eyes would be a benefit to the team. I fell for the flattery and signed on.
After a crash review of the technology, I embarked on the first of three 2-week site visits to Al Jubail on the Persian Gulf coast. Major culture shock. All women there wear full burqas; no faces are seen and no interaction permitted, so you are cut off from half of society. Everything is forced to close during prayer times. Inappropriate dress, even by men, results in a public reprimand from a local cop. I had been to Muslim countries before, but this was far more intense. It was jarring and isolating but also fascinating. And it was HOT.
You'd think that removing two little hydrogen atoms from propane to make propylene would be simple. It is not. Propane wants to keep them. The dehydrogenation facility is big and incredibly complicated: huge, hot catalytic reactors, multiple gas separation towers, gas purification units, and cooling systems, together covering four city blocks. It's loud and scary, and a lot different from the state-of-the-art laboratory I was used to.
I knew going in that to succeed I must build respectful, somewhat personal, working relationships with the local staff. Pretending to know everything (or anything) would be a bad idea; it's much better to ask questions and dig for answers together. Cultural sensitivity was crucial. My first visit, during the fasting month of Ramadan, required some particularly difficult adaptations: If you must eat or drink water during the day, please be discrete.
Things that are easy in the research lab, I learned, are hard in the field. Reliable data are crucial in any investigation, but much harder to obtain in an operational industrial facility. A research pilot plant designed for liters per day is way different than a facility producing hundreds of tons per day. There is much you cannot do: You can't take samples from just any point in the process, or change operating conditions just to see what happens. Staff members may lack the experience necessary to avoid subtle problems in sampling and analysis. Data are often so uncertain, so clouded by events, that interpretation becomes more art than science, or impossible. I organized a series of conference calls with our analytical experts back home, reviewing and improving procedures alongside local staff. We made progress and improved relationships.
When troubleshooting complex systemssystems that encompass not just science and technology but also people and relationshipsthere may be many culprits. By addressing root causes of disparate problems, our team made important improvements. And I learned plenty.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 