I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Effect of Diffusion Constraints and ZnOx Speciation on Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane and Isobutane over ZnO-Containing Catalysts
Abstract
Heterogeneously catalyzed gassolid-phase reactions generally suffered from diffusion limitations in large-scale processes or in academic studies when zeolites were used as catalysts or supports. Here, we elucidated the effects of diffusion of reactants/products in nonoxidative propane (PDH) and isobutane dehydrogenation (iBDH) reactions on the performance of catalysts possessing differently structured ZnOx species on (S-1), dealuminated beta (deAl beta), and ZrO2. The catalysts were prepared through physically mixing ZnO and the support. Force-field molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the effectiveness factor η is larger than 0.99 in the PDH reaction over all catalysts and in the iBDH reaction over the ZnO-deAl beta catalyst, thus suggesting that mass transport limitations do not play any significant role. However, the iBDH reaction over S-1-based catalysts suffers from some diffusion limitations (0.35 < η < 0.9). Such conditions are favorable for cracking reactions responsible for isobutene selectivity loss. To compare intrinsic catalyst activity in the PDH and iBDH reactions over the ZnOx/S-1 catalyst, molecular-level insights into individual reaction pathways were derived from density functional theory calculations. The nature of active ZnOx sites was investigated by X-ray absorption spectroscopy and was established to depend on the kind of support material. Binuclear ZnOx species are formed inside small S-1 pores or on the surface of ZrO2, while three-dimensional multinuclear ZnOx clusters are generated in the β zeolite with larger pores. The latter show higher Zn-related activity in the PDH reaction under conditions free of any diffusion constraints. The developed ZnOdeAl beta showed the spacetime yield of propene or isobutene formation of 2 kgC3H6 kgcat1 h1 or 6.3 kgi-C4H8 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C and about 7080% equilibrium alkane conversion with an olefin selectivity of about 90%. The activity values are higher than those reported for the state-of-the-art non-noble metal oxide catalysts tested at the same or even higher temperatures.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:ZnOx species zeolite diffusion constraints nonoxidative dehydrogenation propane isobutane
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
It is commonly accepted that heterogeneously catalyzed reactions (gassolid phase) follow five general steps, i.e., (i) diffusion (from the bulk gas to the external catalyst surface or within catalyst pores) of reactants toward the catalyst surface, (ii) their adsorption on active sites, (iii) chemical transformations, (iv) desorption of formed reaction products, and finally, (v) their diffusion (from the external catalyst surface or within catalyst pores to the bulk gas). (1) Therefore, the diffusion of reactants/products may play an important role in the gassolid phase reactions, especially when porous materials are used as catalysts or supports. All academic studies, in principle, should be carried out under conditions free of mass transport limitations as required for assessing intrinsic catalyst activity and selectivity. Many studies, however, did not consider the diffusion behaviors of reactants/products to the internal surface of porous materials where the active sites mainly locate. (24) In addition, such constraints are practically unavoidable under a large-scale operation because of the size of catalyst particles or for highly active catalysts even under laboratory conditions. Thus, it is important to understand the consequences of such limitations for catalyst activity and particularly for selectivity to gas-phase products and to carbon-containing deposits in high-temperature reactions. (5,6)
The nonoxidative dehydrogenation (DH) of light alkanes, e.g., propane (PDH) or isobutane (iBDH), is one of the most promising on-purpose technologies to produce the corresponding alkenes (79) over Pt- (1012) or Cr-based (13) catalysts. These catalysts, however, suffer from high costs and necessity of using Cl-containing compounds (14) to redisperse large Pt particles or the toxic nature of Cr(VI) compounds. Encouraged by the requirements of environmental sustainability, many efforts have been made both in academia and industry to develop alternative supported or bulk DH catalysts based on oxides of V, (15,16) Ga, (17,18) Co, (19) Fe, (20,21) or Zr. (22,23) ZnO-containing catalysts based on, e.g., SiO2, (24) Al2O3, (25) ZrO2-based materials, (26,27) and zeolites, e.g., HZSM-5, (28,29) dealuminated (deAl) beta, (30) and silicalite-1 (S-1) (3135) were widely investigated. However, based on the abovementioned five general steps in the gassolid reactions, the diffusion effect on the catalyst activity and product selectivity could not be ignored when zeolites are used as catalysts or supports.
Against the above background, our present intentions are to explore (i) the effect of the topology of a support on catalyst activity and product selectivity and (ii) the efficiency of catalysts used in PDH and iBDH. To this end, S-1 zeolite (10-member-ring pores), deAl beta zeolite (12-member-ring pores), and nonporous ZrO2 were used as supports for well-defined ZnOx species. The structure of the ZnOx species was determined by X-ray absorption spectroscopy. Sophisticated kinetic DH tests in a broad range of alkane conversion degrees and at different reaction temperatures enabled us to elucidate the fundamentals related to the formation of individual products. Molecular diffusion simulations provided the basis for establishing the relationship between the catalyst structure, mass transport, and DH performance, i.e., activity and product selectivity. Knowing the structure of active ZnOx species in ZnOx/S-1, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were applied to reveal molecular-level pathways of propene or isobutene formation in PDH or iBDH.
2. Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
The preparation method of silicalite-1 (S-1(1)) has been reported in our previous work. (35) This zeolite was synthesized from the following gel composition in a molar ratio of 1SiO2/0.175TPAOH/15.4H2O. Typically, 48.8 g of 25 wt % tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH, Shanghai Cairui Chemical Engineering Technology Co., Ltd., 25 wt % water solution) was mixed with 25.9 g of deionized water and stirred at room temperature for 10 min; 50.0 g of tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS, Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd.) was added to the above solution and the resulting mixture was aged at room temperature for an additional 6 h. Afterward, the transparent solution was transferred to a stainless-steel autoclave with a PTFE insert and heated to 100 C for 48 h. After cooling down to room temperature, the solid material was separated from the mother liquid by centrifugation and redispersed in deionized water for washing. This process was repeated three times. After desiccation, the zeolite precursor was calcined in static air at 550 C for 6 h.
S-1(2) and S-1(3) were synthesized from the gels with the following compositions (molar ratio): 1SiO2/0.15TPAOH/15.4H2O and 1SiO2/0.15TPAOH/49.2H2O, respectively. TEOS or silica sol (40 wt % SiO2) was used as the Si source for the preparation of S-1(2) or S-1(3). The crystallization temperature and time were 170 C and 48 h for both samples. After crystallization, the solid products were collected by filtration followed by washing, desiccation, and calcination in static air at 550 C for 6 h.
A beta zeolite (Si/Al2 = 25) was purchased from Nankai University Catalyst Co., Ltd. To remove framework aluminum, 10 g of the zeolite was treated in 200 mL of concentrated HNO3 at 120 C for 10 h. The washed and then dried material was redispersed in diluted HNO3 (200 mL, V(HNO3)/V(H2O) = 3:1) and stirred at room temperature for 5 h to remove the extra-framework Al species. Then, the solid product was collected after filtration, washing, and desiccation and abbreviated as deAl beta. ZrO2 was provided by Daiichi Kigenso Kagaku Kogyo Co. and was used without any treatment.
ZnO-based catalysts were synthesized as follows: 0.08 g of commercial ZnO (Sigma-Aldrich) and 0.92 g of each support were physically mixed in a mortar for 10 min. Afterward, the mixtures were pressed and sieved to 315710 μm. The as-prepared catalysts were abbreviated as ZnOsupport. For example, ZnOS-1(1) stands for the sample in which ZnO and S-1(1) were used.
For X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements (see Section 2.2), to exclude the effect of bulk ZnO present in the abovedescribed physical mixtures, additional catalysts were prepared according to a dual-bed method, as shown in Scheme 1. Typically, commercial ZnO (particles of 315710 μm) and the support (particles of 315710 μm) were loaded into a quartz tube (inner diameter of 6 mm) with ZnO being the top layer (upstream). ZnO (50 mg) and support layers (100 mg) were separated by a quartz wool layer (about 10 mg). The loaded reactors were initially heated to 550 C in Ar (10 mL min1) with a heating rate of 10 C min1 followed by exposure to a flow of air (10 mL min1) for 1 h at the same temperature. Then, Ar was fed for 15 min to remove air from the reactors and then this flow was replaced by a flow of 50 vol % H2 in Ar (10 mL min1) for 1 h. The reactors were afterward cooled down to room temperature in Ar. Finally, the bottom layer containing the support with deposited ZnOx species was collected and used for XAS measurements. To distinguish from the physically mixed catalysts described above, the catalysts prepared according to Scheme 1 are named ZnOx/support. Zn loadings in the prepared ZnOx/S-1(1), ZnOx/deAl beta, and ZnOx/ZrO2 are 1.20, 0.86, and 1.60 wt %, respectively.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Schematic Illustration of the Reactor Loading for Preparation of ZnOx/Support Catalysts Used for XAS Measurements
2.2. Catalyst Characterization
To determine the surface area of different supports, N2 adsorptiondesorption measurements were carried out on an ASAP 2020 (Micromeritics). Before the tests, all samples were pretreated at 300 C in N2 for 3 h to remove physically adsorbed water. Afterward, N2 adsorptiondesorption measurements were carried out at 77 K.
The topography and particle size of different supports were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) using a Sigma 500 (Zeiss) microscope operating at an accelerating voltage of 5 kV.
Acidic properties of zeolites were analyzed by temperature-programmed desorption measurements with NH3 (NH3-TPD) using an in-house developed setup containing eight individually heated continuous-flow fixed-bed quartz reactors. Each catalyst (50 mg) was initially heated to 550 C in a flow of Ar followed by feeding air for 1 h and then cooled down to 120 C. Then, the catalysts were exposed to a flow of 1 vol % NH3 in Ar for 1.5 h at the same temperature. To remove physically adsorbed NH3, the catalysts were further flushed in Ar at 120 C for 2 h and then cooled to 80 C. Finally, the treated catalysts were individually heated to 900 C with a heating rate of 10 C min1. NH3 and Ar were detected at the reactor outlet by an on-line mass spectrometer at m/z of 15 and 40, respectively.
To explore the nature of active ZnOx species, X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra at the Zn K absorption edge were recorded at the P65 beamline of the PETRA III synchrotron (DESY, Hamburg) in transmission mode except for the ZnOx/ZrO2 sample. It was analyzed in fluorescence mode using a silicon drift detector (Hitachi Vortex ME4). The energy of the X-ray photons was selected by a Si(111) double-crystal monochromator and the beam size was set by means of slits to 0.2 (vertical) × 1.5 (horizontal) mm2. Using the ATHENA program from the IFEFFIT software package, (36) the recorded spectra were normalized and the EXAFS background was subtracted. The k2-weighted EXAFS functions were Fourier transformed (FT) in the k range of 2.512.3 Å1. The amplitude reduction factor S02 = 1.05 was obtained through fitting the reference spectrum of crystalline ZnO to a wurtzite structural model (Inorganic Crystal Structure Database, collection code is 34477). Artemis (36) software was applied to fit the EXAFS data according to the least-squares method in the R-space between 1.0 and 3.2 Å. The model with two shells from the wurtzite structure (ZnO and ZnZn) was used for the fits. To fit the second shell of the spectrum of the ZnOx/ZrO2 sample with physically meaningful values, it was necessary to increase the starting interatomic distance for this shell by ca. 0.2 Å relative to the distance found in the original ZnO model. The interatomic distances (r), energy shift (δE0), coordination numbers (CN), and mean-square deviation of interatomic distances (σ2) were refined during the fitting. The absolute misfit between the theory and the experiment is expressed by ρ.
2.3. Catalytic Tests
PDH or iBDH tests were carried out in an in-house developed setup equipped with 15 continuous-flow tubular fixed-bed quartz reactors. A feed containing either 40 vol % propane or 40 vol % isobutane in N2 was used in all tests. To determine the rate of propene or isobutene formation, the degree of propane or isobutane conversion was below 10%. The samples were initially heated to 550 C in N2 (15 mL min1), and then flushed in a flow (10 mL min1) of air at the same temperature for 1 h. After 15 min purging in N2 (10 mL min1), the catalysts were exposed to a flow (10 mL min1) of 50 vol % H2 in N2 for 1 h followed by flushing with N2 (10 mL min1) for 15 min and finally feeding either propane or isobutane (40 vol % C3H8 or iso-C4H10 in N2). The rates of propene or isobutene formation were calculated according to eq 1.
r(CnH2n)=
n
(CnH2n)
m(cat)
(1)
where (CnH2n) and m(cat) stand for the molar flow of propene or isobutene (mmol min1) and catalyst mass (g), respectively.
Long-term stability PDH or iBDH tests were carried out at 550 C with a feed of CnH2n+2/N2 = 2:3 (n = 3 or 4). The catalyst treatment was the same as for determining the initial activity of reduced catalysts. The degrees of propane conversion and isobutane conversion were adjusted to about 30 and 45% by varying the contact time, respectively. The conversion of alkanes and the selectivity to gas-phase products and coke were determined according to eqs 24, respectively. Equation 5 was used to calculate the spacetime yield (STY) of propene or isobutene formation.
X(CnH2n+2)=
n
in
CnH2n+2

n
out
CnH2n+2
n
in
CnH2n+2
(2)
S(i)=
βi
βCnH2n+2
n
out
i
n
in
CnH2n+2

n
out
CnH2n+2
(3)
S(coke)=1
i
S(i)
(4)
STY=
n
CnH2n×MCnH2n×60
1000×mcat
(5)
where  with superscripts in or out means the molar flow of gas-phase components at the reactor inlet or outlet (mmol min1), respectively; βi represents the stoichiometric coefficient for the product i; and MCnH2n is the molecular weight of propene or isobutene (42 or 56 g mol1).
The rate constant of catalyst deactivation was calculated from the long-term stability tests according to eq 6, as suggested in ref (37).
kdeactivation=
ln(
1X(CnH2n+2)final
X(CnH2n+2)final
)ln(
1X(CnH2n+2)initial
X(CnH2n+2)initial
)
t
(6)
Turnover frequency (TOF) values were calculated in two different ways. Either the total amount of Zn or the geometric structure of ZnOx species were considered, as shown in eqs 7 and 8
TOF_total=
r(C3H6)×60
ntotalZn
(7)
TOF_geo=
r(C3H6)×60×(CN+1)
ntotalZn
(8)
where r(C3H6) is the rate of propene formation calculated by eq 1and CN is the coordination number of ZnZn determined by EXAFS.
To determine the apparent activation energy of propene or isobutene formation, the corresponding rates were determined at 475, 500, 525, and 550 C. The energy values were obtained from the slope of the dependence of ln(r(C3H6)) or ln(r(iso-C4H8)) vs 1/T. Prior to the tests, the catalysts were initially reduced at 550 C in 50 vol % H2 in N2 for 1 h and then cooled down to a target temperature.
An on-line gas chromatograph (GC, Agilent 6890) equipped with flame ionization (FID) and thermal conductivity (TCD) detectors was used to analyze and quantify the feed components and the reaction products, respectively. The GC has columns PLOT/Q connected to TCD (for CO2), AL/S connected to FID (for hydrocarbons), and Molsieve 5 connected to TCD (for H2, O2, N2, and CO). The GC analysis time of gas-phase components is 4 and 9 min for PDH and iBDH, respectively.
2.4. Molecular Diffusion Simulations
2.4.1. Force-Field Molecular Dynamics Simulations
Force-field molecular dynamics (FFMD) simulations is an effective approach to analyze the diffusivity of guest molecules within a zeolite framework. (3840) All molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were carried out using the Materials Studio simulation package (Accelrys Software). Adsorption/desorption behavior of propane/propene or isobutane/isobutene in the BEA and MFI frameworks was calculated using the grand canonical Monte Carlo (GCMC) simulation method. Periodic boundary conditions were applied in all three directions. The interatomic interactions were described by the condensed-phase-optimized molecular potentials for atomistic simulation studies (COMPASS) force field. The electrostatic energy was calculated by the Ewald and Group summation method. This method has an Ewald accuracy of 4.18 × 105 kJ mol1 for calculating the electrostatic potential energy. To achieve an equilibrium state, 107 Monte Carlo steps were carried out. The zeolitic framework with a rigid structure was considered. The metropolis scheme was used at a constant loading and constant temperature. To minimize the energy of constructed structures, all of the structures were equilibrated by five annealing cycles from 73 to 627 C with a heating ramp of 5 C min1 to refine the conformation. Dynamic processes in the NVT ensemble, where the number of particles (N), volume (V), and temperature (T) were kept as constants, were performed for 5000 ps in 5000000 steps after the systems have been equilibrated at 60 and 550 C. The velocity Verlet algorithm was used to integrate the Newtons equations of motion with a time step of 1 fs. A cutoff radius of 18.5 Å was assumed for the Lennard-Jones interaction potential calculation. The simulated temperature was controlled by a Nos thermostat. The structures considered in this study are shown in Figure S1. The slope of the mean-square displacement (MSD) as a function of time was used to determine the self-diffusivity following the Einstein relation (eq 9).
MSD(τ)=2nDτ+b
(9)
where τ is the diffusion time, D is the intracrystalline diffusivity, n is the dimension of the framework (n = 1, 2, and 3 for 1D, 2D, and 3D frameworks, respectively), and b is the thermal factor arising from atomic vibrations.
2.4.2. Ab Initio Molecular Dynamics Simulations
To consider the flexibility of the zeolite framework, ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations were applied, although at higher computational costs. (41,42) They were carried out with the CP2K simulation package (version 7.1) (43) with a GPW (Gaussian and plane wave) basis set. (44) At a theoretical level, the revPBE functional was chosen due to its higher preciseness for the solid-state calculations in comparison with the PBE functional. The revPBE-D3 functional (45) with a plane wave cutoff at a density functional theory level combined with a double-ζ valence polarized (DZVP) basis set and GoedeckerTeterHutter (GTH) pseudopotentials (46) was applied. The cutoff energy was set to 350 Ry. A 1 × 1 × 1 supercell is employed for both BEA and MFI zeolites for the first principal simulations. Dispersion interactions are incorporated by means of the D3 corrections of Grimme et al. (47,48) For each guest molecule, cell parameters were obtained by computing time-averaged values from a 10 ps NpT (amount N, pressure p, and temperature T) molecular dynamics simulation at 550 C and ambient pressure. Production molecular dynamics, which was used as the input for the mobility analysis, was carried out in the NVT (amount N, volume V, and temperature T) ensemble at 550 C for 50 ps. The temperature of the simulations was controlled with a NosHoover chain thermostat (49,50) consisting of three beads and with a time constant of 1000 wavenumbers. The pressure was controlled with a MartynaTobiasKlein barostat. (51,52) A time step of 0.5 fs is employed for integrating the equations of motion. (41) The self-consistent field convergence criterion was set at 106.
2.5. Density Functional Theory Calculations
Using the model for a binuclear ZnOx species in ZnOx/S-1 from our previous PDH study, (32) elementary pathways in the course of iBDH were theoretically determined. Spin-polarized and periodic density functional theory (DFT) calculations were carried out with the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). (53,54) The generalized gradient approximation in the PerdewBurkeErnzerhof (GGA-PBE) functional (55,56) was used to treat the electron exchange and correlation energies. The cutoff energy was set up to 400 eV. Geometry optimization was converged until the forces acting on atoms were lower than 0.02 eV Å1, and the energy difference was lower than 104 eV. The climbing image nudged elastic band (CI-NEB) method was applied for identifying transition states. (57) All our reported energies include dispersion (D3) (49) and ZPE corrections (PBE + D3 + ZPE).
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Physicochemical Properties of Supports and Reactants
As catalytically active ZnOx species are located in the micropores of zeolite supports, (32) propane or isobutane diffusion to the active sites can be essential in the PDH or iBDH reactions. Therefore, we first consider the topology of supports and the molecular size of the fed alkanes. The MFI zeolite possesses straight and sinusoidal channels with 10-member rings (Figure 1a). The pore sizes are 5.3 × 5.6 and 5.1 × 5.5 Å, respectively. The BEA zeolite has 3-dimensional intersecting 12-member rings (Figure 1b), which are larger than those in the MFI zeolite. Propane with a molecular size of 4.3 Å (Figure 1c) can enter the channels of both zeolites more easily in comparison with isobutane having a molecular size of 5.3 Å (Figure 1d). Moreover, according to the simulation results in ref (58), isobutane was considered a spherical molecule and its project diameter is as large as 7.0 Å, which is close to the pore size of the BEA zeolite along [100]. Therefore, the diffusion effect of reactants within the zeolites should be considered, especially in the iBDH reaction. To mimic their diffusion, force-field molecular dynamics (FFMD) simulations were employed at the reaction temperature (see Section 3.6).
Figure 1
Figure 1. Topology of (a) MFI and (b) BEA zeolites and the dynamic diameters of (c) propane and (d) isobutane. Yellow, red, gray, and white stand for Si, O, C, and H atoms, respectively.
The morphologies of different zeolites were also investigated by SEM (Figure S2). Among different S-1 supports, S-1(1) possesses spherical particles with the smallest particle size of 80 nm (Figure S2a). Consequently, this material has the highest external surface of 86 m2 g1 and the volume of mesopores of 0.49 cm3 g1 (Table 1). The particle sizes of S-1(2) and S-1(3) are larger than that of S-1(1), with about 200 nm and 8 μm (Figure S2b,c), respectively. The morphology of the deAl beta zeolite is different from that of the S-1 samples and the particle size distribution is not uniform (Figure S2d). Due to the larger pore size and lower density of the framework, deAl beta possesses the highest surface area among all zeolitic supports in the present study. ZrO2 does not possess any microporous structures and has the lowest specific surface area of 108 m2 g1.
Table 1. Specific (SBET) and External (Sexternal) Surface Areas, the Surface Area of Micropores (Smicro), and Volumes of Micro- (Vmicro) and Mesopores (Vmeso) of Different Supports
supports SBET (m2 g1) Sexternala (m2 g1) Smicroa (m2 g1) Vmicrob (cm3 g1) Vmesob (cm3 g1)
S-1(1) 462 86 376 0.17 0.49
S-1(2) 452 23 429 0.20 0.11
S-1(3) 406 23 383 0.19 0.07
deAl beta 546 94 452 0.19 0.19
ZrO2 108       0.31
aThe Sexternal and Smicropore were obtained by the t-plot method.
bThe Vmicropore and Vmesopore were obtained by the BJH method.
3.2. Nature of Active ZnOx Sites
An insight into the nature of active sites in ZnOx-based catalysts was derived from XAS measurements. To avoid any effect from the bulk ZnO in the ZnOzeolite mixtures, additional catalysts were prepared according to the dual-bed reduction method using H2 as a reducing agent (Scheme 1 and the corresponding description in Section 2). The position of the adsorption edge in the obtained XANES spectra of all as-prepared samples is about 9662 eV (Figure 2a), which is close to that of ZnO. Thus, the oxidation state of Zn in ZnOx/S-1(1), ZnOx/deAl beta, and ZnOx/ZrO2 is likely to be +2. The Fourier transformed k2-weighted extended X-ray adsorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra are presented in Figure 2b. The fitting results are summarized in Table 2 and Figure S3 in the Supporting Information. The first and second shell scatterings at 1.5 and 2.9 Å (3.2 Å for the ZnOx/ZrO2 sample, uncorrected distance) correspond to O and Zn neighbors as in ZnO, respectively.
Figure 2
Figure 2. XANES spectra (a) and FT EXAFS spectra (b) (not corrected for the phase shift) of as-prepared samples and reference materials.
Table 2. EXAFS Fitting Results
catalyst shell CN distance (Å) σ2 (103 Å2) δE0 (eV) ρ (%)
ZnOx/S-1(1)a ZnO 2.9  0.2 1.97  0.01 7.3  1.6 4.7  0.6 0.2
  ZnZn 1.3  0.5 3.32  0.07 7.3  1.6    
ZnOx/deAl beta ZnO 2.9  0.1 1.98  0.01 7.3b 3.9  0.6 0.3
  ZnZn 6.1  2.1 3.30  0.02 18.7  4.1    
ZnOx/ZrO2 ZnO 2.9  0.1 2.00  0.04 7.3b 0.84  1.2 2.0
  ZnZn 1.1  0.5 3.52  0.03 7.3b    
  ZnO 1.2  0.4 3.24  0.02 7.3b    
aThe fitting data were taken from our previous study. (32)
bFixed at the most common value for room-temperature measurements for the ease of data comparison.
The average coordination number (CN) of ZnZn and ZnO in ZnOx/S-1(1) is 1 and 3, respectively, indicating that ZnOx species exist in the form of binuclear ZnOx species. In comparison with ZnOx/S-1(1), the second shell of ZnO in ZnOx/deAl beta is more pronounced. Considering the higher average CN of ZnZn in this species (Table 2), small 3-dimensional ZnOx clusters should be formed in this catalyst. The distance of ZnZn in ZnOx/ZrO2 is about 0.2 Å longer than that in ZnOx/S-1(1) and ZnOx/deAl beta catalysts (3.52 vs 3.32 Å), and an extra ZnO shell at a longer distance was needed for a better fit (lower ρ-value). The CN number of ZnZn, however, is similar to that in the ZnOx/S-1(1) catalyst. Therefore, we put forward that binuclear ZnOx species were also formed on the surface of ZrO2 but with a different geometry.
3.3. Catalyst Activity in PDH and iBDH
ZnOsupport (S-1(i), deAl beta, or ZrO2) physical mixtures were initially tested at 550 C in PDH and iBHD reactions at degrees of alkane conversion below 10% to determine the rate of olefine formation. The catalysts were initially treated in a flow of 50 vol % H2 in N2 at the same temperature for 1 h. Such treatment is required to reduce ZnO to metallic Zn, which reacts with OH nests to form catalytically active ZnOx species, as demonstrated in our previous study. (32) Considering this information, the different activity of ZnOS-1(i) mixtures both in the PDH and iBDH reactions (Figure 3a) can be explained by the different concentrations of OH nests in these support materials, i.e., 0.374, 0.960, and 0.265 mmol g1 for S-1(1), S-1(2), and S-1(3), respectively (Figure S4). Such values were determined through a combination of in situ diffuse reflectance infrared spectroscopic (in situ DRIFTS) tests with temperature-programmed release of water measurements (Figure S4a,b). The details were reported in our previous study. (32) Except for the deAl beta support, a positively linear correlation between the activity and the amount of OH nests on S-1 supports was established (Figure S4c,d). This result is in line with the XAS results that different ZnOx clusters were formed on the deAl beta support in comparison with the S-1(1) support.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Rates of propene (solid blue boxes) and isobutene (solid pink boxes) formation and (b) the ratio of r(iso-C4H8) to r(C3H6) over ZnOsupport catalysts. Reaction conditions: 550 C, CnH2n+2/N2 = 2:3, total flow rates are 40 and 60 mL min1 for the PDH and iBDH reactions, respectively.
In the PDH reaction, the highest rate of propene formation (r(C3H6)) was achieved over ZnOS-1(2) and ZnOdeAl beta (1.97 vs 1.99 mmol g1 min1). ZnOZrO2 showed the second lowest r(C3H6) of 0.78 mmol g1 min1 (Figure 3a). When isobutane was dehydrogenated over the same catalysts, all of them showed higher activity in comparison with the PDH reaction. The strength of the increase in the rate of olefine formation, however, depends strongly on the support applied. In agreement with the PDH reaction, ZnOdeAl beta is also the most active catalyst in the iBDH reaction. The rate of isobutene formation is 8.0 mmol g1 min1 (Figure 3a). This rate over ZnOS-1(2) is about 2 times lower although this catalyst performed very similarly as ZnOdeAl beta in the PDH reaction (Figure 3a). To illustrate how the catalysts change their activity upon replacing propane by isobutane, we calculated the ratio of r(iso-C4H8)/r(C3H6), which is shown in Figure 3b. This ratio is between 2 and 2.5 for the ZnOS-1(i) catalysts, but it is as high as 4 for the ZnOdeAl beta and ZnOZrO2 catalysts. In comparison with S-1(i), the supports in the latter two catalysts have a larger pore size and open structure.
We also determined an apparent activation energy (Ea) of olefin formation in the PDH and iBDH reactions in the temperature range from 475 to 550 C. On this basis, the catalysts can be divided into three groups: ZnOS-1(i), ZnOdeAl beta, and ZnOZrO2. In the PDH reaction, the first group of catalysts is characterized by the Ea value of 99  3 kJ mol1, indicating that they have the same structure of active sites (Figure S5). A slightly higher value of 116 kJ mol1 was determined for the ZnOdeAl beta catalyst. The lowest activation energy of 86 kJ mol1 was determined for ZnOZrO2. This value is much lower than that for bare ZrO2 (183 kJ mol1), where the active sites consisting of two coordinatively unsaturated Zr4+ sites are responsible for propane dehydrogenation, as shown in our previous studies. (22,23) Considering the huge difference in the Ea values for ZrO2 and ZnOZrO2, the in situ formed ZnOx species on the surface of ZrO2 should catalyze the DH reaction rather than Zr4+ sites.
As expected from the lower CH bond strength in isobutane than in propane, the Ea value of isobutene formation over ZnOZrO2 or ZnOdeAl beta is lower than that of propene formation, i.e., 51 vs 86 kJ mol1 or 101 vs 116 kJ mol1. Contrarily, the Ea value of isobutene formation over ZnOS-1(i) catalysts is 1330 kJ mol1 higher than that of propene formation in the PDH reaction. Considering the distinctive behavior of catalysts based on 10-member rings (ZnOS-1(i)), or 12-member rings (ZnOdeAl beta), or even nonporous supports (ZrO2), we put forward that internal diffusion constraints can play an important role in the studied reactions (see Section 3.6).
To compare the catalysts based on MFI and BEA zeolites as well as ZrO2 and possessing different ZnOx species in terms of their intrinsic activity, we calculated the Zn-related TOF values of propene formation in two different ways (eqs 7 and 8). As the iBDH reaction over ZnOS-1(i) suffers from diffusion limitations, we did not compare the catalysts in this reaction. When using the total number of Zn atoms in the catalysts, the obtained TOF values for ZnOx/S-1(i), ZnOx/deAl beta, and ZnOx/ZrO2 are 239, 272, and 227 h1, respectively. If we consider the real structure or geometry of ZnOx species, the TOF values of the binuclear ZnOx species in ZnOx/S-1(1) and ZnOx/ZrO2 will be 478 and 454 h1, respectively. Such values for 3D ZnOx clusters with a coordination number of ZnZn of 6.1  2.1 in ZnOx/deAl beta is, however, in the range of 13602448 h1. Regardless of the calculation method, the TOF value of the sub-nanometer 3D ZnOx cluster is higher than that of binuclear ZnOx species. Considering the lower reactivity of single Zn2+ sites on the surface of SiO2 (24) (0.77 h1) and in silicalite-1 (31) (39.6 h1), we can conclude that the degree of oligomerization of the ZnOx species is an activity-governing descriptor if the ZnOx clusters are in sub-nanometer range.
3.4. Catalyst Industrial Relevance
Long-term catalyst stability and olefin productivity at industrially relevant degrees of alkane conversion over ZnOzeolite samples were additionally tested. The degrees of propane and isobutane conversion was controlled at the range of 2530 or 4050%, respectively. Under our reaction conditions, the equilibrium propane and isobutane conversions are 42% and 64%, respectively. In the PDH reaction, the least intrinsically active ZnOS-1(1) and ZnOS-1(3) catalysts show propene selectivity between 93 and 95% at comparable degrees of propane conversion (Figure S6a,b). The selectivity to coke is about 5% (Figure S6c). The selectivity to propene over the most active ZnOS-1(2) and ZnOdeAl beta catalysts is slightly below 90% during the first 0.5 h on propane stream and reaches about 93% at the end of the test, while the selectivity to coke follows an opposite trend (Figure S6b,c). The selectivity changes might be partially caused by a decrease in the conversion of propane. When isobutane was used instead of propane, the trends of conversion and product selectivity with the rising reaction time are similar to that in the PDH reaction (Figure S6eg). The highest selectivity to isobutene between 85 and 87% at isobutane conversion degrees between 50 and 43% was achieved over ZnOdeAl beta. The selectivity to coke over this catalyst is about 5% only (Figure S6g). In addition, this catalyst also shows higher S(iso-C4H8) in comparison to ZnOS-1(i) catalysts but similar S(coke).
To benchmark the most active ZnOS-1(2) and ZnOdeAl beta catalysts in terms of productivity, the spacetime yield (STY) of propene or isobutene formation was calculated and is shown in Figures 4a,b and S6d,h. The developed catalysts reveal higher STY(C3H6) and STY(iso-C4H8) values than the state-of-the-art non-noble metal oxide catalysts tested at the same or even higher temperatures (Tables S1, S2, and Figure 4).
Figure 4
Figure 4. Comparison of the state-of-the-art catalysts and ZnO-based catalysts in PDH (a) and iBHD (b) reactions. The detailed data are available in Tables S1 and S2 in the Supporting Information.
Regardless of the reactants, all catalysts lose their initial activity (Figure S6a,e) with rising time on alkane stream but with different rates (Table 3). The ZnOdeAl beta shows the highest deactivation rate constant of 0.215 h1 in the PDH reaction, which is about 2 times higher than that of ZnOS-1(1). This is due to the higher selectivity to coke (Figure S6c). In the iBDH reaction, however, the deactivation rate constants of the most active three catalysts, i.e., ZnOdeAl beta, ZnOS-1(2), and ZnOS-1(1), are comparable (0.117 vs 0.120 vs 0.123 h1). According to our previous studies, (31,32,35) the deactivation of ZnO-based catalysts is mainly caused by (i) coke formation during the DH reaction and (ii) irreversible Zn loss to a minor extent within 3 h on alkane stream. The prepared catalysts contain excessive ZnO (8 wt % ZnO), which could be transferred into catalytically active sites under reaction conditions and compensate their thermally induced loss. Thus, coke deposition on the catalyst surface should be the main reason for deactivation.
Table 3. Initial (after 4 or 9 min) and Final (after 3 h) Conversions of Propane (X(C3H8)) and Isobutane (X(Iso-C4H10)) and the Deactivation Rate Constant (kd) over Different Catalysts
  X(C3H8) kd in PDH (h1) X(iso-C4H10) kd in iBDH (h1)
catalyst name initial final   initial final  
ZnOS-1(1) 0.26 0.21 0.101 0.47 0.38 0.123
ZnOS-1(2) 0.31 0.24 0.118 0.46 0.38 0.120
ZnOS-1(3) 0.23 0.20 0.065 0.41 0.38 0.035
ZnOdeAl beta 0.30 0.18 0.215 0.51 0.42 0.117
3.5. Molecular-Level Pathways in PDH and iBDH over Binuclear ZnOx Species
To provide direct intrinsic kinetic insights into the PDH and iBDH reactions, we performed DFT calculations using a binuclear ZnOx model (Figure S7), which was developed in ref (32) for PDH over ZnOx/S-1. Like propane, isobutane also has two activation pathways, i.e., (i) terminal methyl (CH3) activation to get an isobutyl (i-butyl) intermediate and (ii) internal methine (CH) activation to get a tert-butyl (tert-butyl) intermediate. For the terminal CH3 activation, there are two possible routes on the basis of surface structures (Figures S8S10 and Table S3). The most favorable route is to form i-butyl and hydroxyl intermediates (i-TS1 in Figure 5) with a barrier of 1.87 eV (endothermic by 0.51 eV). This barrier is higher than 1.35 eV required for cleavage of the methylene CH bond in propane. The formation of isobutene through H abstraction from the i-butyl intermediate also needs a slightly higher energy than for the formation of propene from the primarily formed i-propyl intermediate, i.e., 1.34 vs 1.22 eV (i-TS2 and n-TS2 in Figure 5). The higher barriers for breaking both CH bonds in isobutane than in propane are associated with the larger size of isobutane and surface isobutyl as compared with propane and surface propyl (Figure S11). The final step in the PDH and iBDH reactions is the formation of H2 from the surface hydroxyl and a ZnHZn intermediate and requires 1.07 eV in both reactions. Although it is easier to break the CH bonds in propane than in isobutane, the apparent barrier of the PDH reaction is higher than that of the iBDH reaction (1.81 vs 1.59 eV in Figure 5). Nevertheless, the highest point on the potential energy surface for propane and isobutane is the recombinative formation and desorption of H2. Thus, in agreement with the experimental results (Figure 3), the rate of isobutene formation should be higher than the rate of propene formation.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Potential energy surface of propane/isobutane dehydrogenation over a binuclear ZnOx on the surface of S-1 from ref (32) at the PBE+D3+ZPE level.
3.6. Theoretical Analysis of Diffusivity of Propane and Isobutane
To investigate the shape selectivity of reactants imposed by the zeolite topology from the perspective of molecular diffusion, FFMD simulations were applied according to previous studies. (39,40,59) We initially validated our approach by comparing simulated and experimental diffusivity values. The simulated diffusion coefficients of propane and isobutane within the MFI framework at 60 C agree well with those determined experimentally in refs (60) and (61) at the same temperature (Table S4 and Figure S12a). Thus, our simulations at 550 C (Figure S12b,c) should also be reliable.
The FFMD simulations at 550 C reveal a significant anisotropy phenomenon in the diffusion of propane and isobutane within the BEA and MFI frameworks. The diffusivity (Dyy) along a straight channel is 1.53 times higher than the diffusivity (Dxx) along the curved channel (Figure 6a). Thus, the preponderant diffusion paths of propane and isobutane are in straight channels. The difference in the molecular diffusion between propane and isobutane in the gas phase or within the zeolite framework is reflected by the ratio of DC3H8/Diso-C4H10. On the basis of the kinetic gas theory of dilute gas, (62) the diffusivities in the gas phase (Dgas) of propane and isobutane at 550 C are 9.90 × 108 and 8.63 × 108 m2 s1. Thus, the DC3H8/Diso-C4H10 ratio should be close to 1.15 for the diffusion of these alkanes in the gas phase. The corresponding value calculated for their diffusion within the MFI and BEA frameworks is 18.69 and 1.28 (Figure 6a, dark yellow circles), respectively. This implies that diffusion limitations of isobutane within the MFI framework (10-member rings) are more severe than those within the BEA framework (12-member rings). Thus, the diffusion behavior of isobutane within the pore structure of ZnOS-1(i) catalysts may have a crucial effect on catalyst performance in the iBDH reaction but not in the PDH reaction.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Intracrystalline diffusivity D, diffusivity along the straight channel Dyy, and diffusivity along the curved channel Dxx of propane and isobutane within the BEA and MFI zeolite frameworks and the ratio of Dpropane/Disobutane at 550 C obtained by FFMD (dark yellow circles) and (b) the effectiveness factor of PDH and iBDH over different catalysts (square: ZnO-S-1(1); diamond: ZnO-S-1(2); triangle: ZnO-S-1(3); star: ZnO-deAl beta) used in this work.
Considering the less pronounced diffusion constraints of propane and isobutane at 550 C within the BEA framework (Figure 6a), the rates of olefin formation in the PDH and iBDH reaction over ZnOdeAl beta were used to represent the intrinsic reaction rates. The effectiveness factor η for the PDH and iBDH reactions was calculated according to η = tanhϕ/ϕ using the Thiele modulus Φ analysis method and represents the effect of diffusion constraints on the utilization efficiency of these catalysts. Thiele modulus Φ is defined as
ϕ=l
k/D
, where l is the distance from the center to the surface of the zeolite along the straight channel and k is the reaction rate constant (these values for PDH and iBDH were obtained according to the experimental results based on the ZnOdelAl beta catalyst). The reaction rate constant is calculated by k = Aexp(Ea/RT). In this equation, the exponential factor can be calculated by A = (kBT)/h exp(ΔS#/R), where kB is the Boltzmann constant, h is the Planck constant and ΔS# is the apparent entropy changes. According to the DFT calculations (Figure 5), the value of the apparent entropy changes between transition state and reactant for PDH and iBDH reaction (H2 formation step) is the same (22.8 J mol1 K1). The exponential factor of PDH and iBDH reaction is estimated to 6.4 × 1011 s1. The Ea values of PDH and iBDH on the ZnOdelAl beta catalyst are 116 and 101 kJ mol1, respectively. D is the intracrystalline diffusivity of a guest molecule. According to the analysis, all catalysts used for the PDH reaction are in the full-use regime (η > 0.99) without any significant effect of mass transport (Figure 6b). This is also valid for the iBDH reaction over the ZnOdeAl beta catalyst (η > 0.98), while all of the ZnOS-1(i) catalysts have poor utilization efficiency of active sites (0.35 < η < 0.9) in this reaction. For the ZnO-S-1(1), ZnO-S-1(2) and ZnO-S-1(3) catalysts, the η values are 0.90, 0.77 and 0.35, respectively. They are significantly lower than that for ZnO-deAl beta. This efficiency order correlates with the particle size of the support in the b axis; the larger the size, the lower the efficiency.
To consider the flexibility of the zeolite framework, ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations were applied. (41,42) The relative positions between the centroid of isobutane and selected oxygen atom in BEA and MFI frameworks were determined at 550 C by AIMD (Figure 7a,b). The relative displacement of isobutane within the BEA framework during the simulation period (50 ns) is significantly higher than that within the MFI framework (Figure 7c). Thus, one can conclude that at a high temperature, i.e., 550 C, the diffusion limitations of isobutane within the MFI framework with flexibility (63) are still more severe than those in the BEA framework. This conclusion agrees with the results of FFMD simulations.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Definition of the relative positions between isobutane and selected oxygen atoms in (a) BEA and (b) MFI frameworks. (c) Evolution of the relative displacement of isobutane within BEA and MFI frameworks at 550 C obtained by AIMD simulations. Black circles in panels (a) and (b) stand for oxygen atoms.
3.7. Consequences of Diffusion Constraints for Product Selectivity
To understand if and how diffusion constraints affect selectivity to gas-phase products and coke in the iBDH reaction over ZnOzeolite-based catalysts, we analyzed selectivityconversion relationships obtained from steady-state tests carried out at different contact times. For comparative purposes, the corresponding data for the PDH reaction were also analyzed, although no mass transport limitations are expected for this reaction under our reaction conditions. Regardless of the type of zeolite and the feed alkane, the selectivity to the desired olefins decreases with increasing alkane conversion, while the selectivity to cracking products and coke follow an opposite trend (Figure 8af). The selectivity to propene or isobutene extrapolated to the zero conversion of propane or isobutane is close to 1, while the selectivity to coke and cracking products is close to 0. This is a fingerprint for the existence of the only one direct pathway of alkane conversion, i.e., the dehydrogenation to the corresponding olefins. They undergo further transformations to secondary products, i.e., cracking products and coke (Figure 8g).
Figure 8
Figure 8. Dependence of selectivity to propene, isobutene, coke, and cracking products on the conversion of propane (ac) or isobutane (df) over ZnOzeolite catalysts. (g). Proposed pathways of product formation. Reaction conditions: 550 C, CnH2n+2/N2 = 2:3, and n = 3 or 4.
In the PDH reaction (no mass transport limitations), the ZnOS-1(i) catalysts show higher propene selectivity in the whole range of degrees of propane conversion in comparison with the ZnOdeAl beta catalyst. Consequently, the latter material is characterized by higher selectivity to coke (Figure 8c). This can be caused by the residual acidic Al3+ cations in the support as proved by NH3-TPD tests (Figure S13) or by the nature of ZnOx species in deAl beta, which shows higher intrinsic selectivity to coke in comparison with the ZnOx species in S-1. However, when the same catalysts were used in the iBDH reaction, the ZnOdeAl beta catalyst showed higher isobutene selectivity than the ZnOS-1(i) catalysts. Thus, the kind of ZnOx can be excluded as the reason for the difference in selectivity over these materials. To explain the changes in the selectivity order between the ZnOdeAl beta and ZnOS-1(i) catalysts in PDH and iBDH, the diffusivity of isobutene inside the MFI and BEA frameworks was also simulated (Figure S14). The diffusion of this olefin inside the BEA framework is more than 30 times faster than that inside the MFI framework (Table S5). Thus, secondary reactions of isobutene over ZnOdeAl beta were inhibited to some extent in comparison with ZnOS-1(i) catalysts. As all of these catalysts also differ in the selectivity to cracking products but not to coke in iBDH, we suggest that cracking reactions of isobutene are favored when the effectiveness factor is low. In the light of lower deactivation rate constant in the iBDH reaction over the ZnO-deAl beta catalyst in comparison with the PDH reaction (Table 3), more attention was paid to analyze coke selectivity. It is well-known for DH reaction that the selectivity to the target olefins decreases with rising alkane conversion due to their consecutive transformations to cracking product and coke (Figure 8g). Thus, it is unfair to compare the catalysts in terms of coke selectivity at different degrees of alkane conversion. Therefore, to ensure a proper comparison on catalytic performance over the ZnO-deAl beta catalyst in the PDH and iBDH reactions, we followed the following approach. As seen in Figure 8c,f, coke selectivity values in these reactions at about 30% propane or isobutane conversion are about 14% or about 6%. We also compared the coke selectivity at 70% of equilibrium alkane conversion. The equilibrium propane and isobutane conversion degrees under our reaction conditions are about 42% and 64%, respectively. The corresponding coke selectivity values are about 14% and about 10%. On this basis, we can conclude that propene is more prone to form coke in comparison with isobutene and thus causes faster catalyst deactivation.
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The morphology of ZrO2, S-1, and beta zeolite supports was established to (i) determine the kind of catalytically active ZnOx sites formed from a physical mixture of ZnO and the support under propane/isobutane dehydrogenation conditions and (ii) to control olefin selectivity through limited diffusion of the desired product. Regardless of the zeolite morphology, catalytically active ZnOx species are formed inside the pores. Binuclear ZnOx species and 3-dimensional multinuclear ZnOx clusters were in situ formed on the internal surface of silicalite-1 and deAl beta zeolite, respectively. The external surface of ZrO2 is populated by binuclear ZnOx species differing from those in silicalite-1.
Both experimental results and theoretical force-field molecular dynamics (FFMD) simulations prove that propane molecules do not have any significant diffusion constraints within the S-1 and deAl-beta zeolites (η > 0.99). Contrarily, the diffusion of isobutane and isobutene inside the S-1 framework is hindered to some extent. In addition to low utilization efficiency (0.35 < η < 0.9) of the active sites, the internal diffusion limitations cause loss in the selectivity to isobutene due to its consecutive conversion into C1C3 hydrocarbons.
Under conditions free of any diffusion limitations, ZnOx clusters reveal higher Zn-related activity than binuclear ZnOx species. The theoretical calculations revealed that breaking of the CH bonds in iso-C4H10 requires higher energies in comparison with the C3H8 molecule due to the steric effect of the iso-C4H9 intermediate, while a lower energy span was needed for the whole iso-C4H10 dehydrogenation process.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 