<DOCUMENT>
Mechanism research reveals the role of Fen (n = 2–5) supported C2N as single-cluster catalysts (SCCs) for the non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation in the optimization of catalytic performance†
Single cluster catalysts show excellent potential for propane dehydrogenation, compensating for the limited catalytic performance of single-atom catalysts in reactions involving multiple reaction steps and intermediates. Herein, density functional theory is used to investigate the catalytic activity and mechanism for non-oxidized propane dehydrogenation on Fen–C2N (n = 2–5). Firstly, the stability of Fen–C2N (n = 2–5) is evaluated by comparing the mean values of binding energy and cohesive energy. The results show that Fen–C2N (n = 2–4) can exist stably, which is also verified by the molecular dynamics calculation at 873 K. Band structure analysis shows that the screened catalysts have metal properties, which are conducive to charge transfer. Fukui function analysis is used to predict the optimal adsorption site. The electronic properties of propane and propylene adsorbed on catalysts are further studied by the partial density of states and deformation charge density. The activation barrier (Ea) and reaction energy (ΔE) of the main reaction steps are evaluated. The results show that Fe2-C2N (Ea = 0.97 eV, ΔE= 0.22 eV) has the best catalytic activity. The Ea for further propylene dehydrogenation is also used to evaluate the yield of propylene. Compared with Fe–C2N, Fe2-C2N can regulate the adsorption strength of propane and propylene, showing better catalytic ability and higher selectivity for propylene. The above research provides ideas for the design of new catalysts with high selectivity and activity for non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation.
1. Introduction
As an important chemical raw material, the demand for propylene has continued to rise in recent years.1,2 At present, the production of propylene mainly comes from the steam cracking of naphtha and the fluidized catalytic cracking of heavy oil.3 In addition, with the gradual development and utilization of natural gas and shale gas, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative method for producing propylene.4 Also, it is profitable to convert propane to propylene because of the large price difference between them. In the process of PDH, the direct dehydrogenation of propane inhibits the rate of coke generation to a certain extent compared to the oxidative dehydrogenation due to the lack of an oxidant. And the direct dehydrogenation has the advantages of high yield of propylene and less side reactions, so it has received great attention at one time.5,6 The most commonly used PDH catalysts commercially are mainly Pt- or CrOx-based materials.7 Although Pt-based catalysts show high catalytic activity, their shortcomings of easy sintering and high price hinder their commercialization. Meanwhile, the CrOx-based materials usually face the crisis of coke.8 Therefore, it is imperative to find new catalysts with higher catalytic activity, higher propylene yield and lower cost to replace the existing catalytic materials.
For the past few years, a series of single-atom catalysts (SACs) with high atom utilization and uniform active center have been used to catalyze PDH, and these SACs have also been confirmed to exhibit good stability and high activity.9–11 However, the metal sites in SACs are dispersed and contain only one active site, leading to a single adsorption site for the reactants. For reactions requiring co-adsorption of multiple reactants, further improvement of catalytic performance is limited.12,13 Secondly, the single atom has a higher surface energy, which can easily lead to sintering and agglomeration during the reaction process, which greatly covers the original catalytic performance, and in order to ensure the dispersion of the single atom, its low experimental load also leads to unsatisfactory activity.14,15 On the other hand, single-cluster catalysts consist of multiple atoms, providing more reactive sites and enabling the adsorption of multiple reactants simultaneously, thereby increasing the catalytic reaction rate compared to single-atom catalysts.16 And precisely because of this polyatomic configuration, it can relatively slow down the toxic phenomenon of an atom due to impurity adsorption, which improves the stability and life of the catalyst to a certain extent. Moreover, the structure of the single cluster catalyst can be tuned by controlling the composition, size, and shape,17 so that it has better performance in non-oxidized propane dehydrogenation reactions, making them more promising for optimizing specific reactions.
For example, based on the experimentally synthesized M2N6 motif (M = Sc–Zn), Wang et al. have theoretically confirmed the existence of ultra-high density (UHD) double-atom catalysts. It is found that Fe2N6 and Co2N6 UHD DACs show excellent activity in catalyzing the ORR reaction.18 And in the study of Jiang et al., two-dimensional heterogeneous substrates loaded with triple metal atoms M3 (M = Mn, Fe, Co and Ni), graphdiyne and graphene (GDY/Gra), have been used to catalyze nitrogen reduction reactions. The results show that Fe3-GDY/Gra with a theoretical mass load of 35.8 wt% showed excellent catalytic activity and high selectivity for electrocatalytic NRRs.19 More importantly, the synergistic effect between the metal atoms contained in the catalyst may optimize the adsorption of key intermediates, thus improving the activity and selectivity of the catalyst. For example, Yang et al. have prepared Pd and Pd3Fe intermetallic alloys for catalyzing PDH, and found that the Pd3Fe catalyst possesses higher selectivity for propylene and stronger stability compared to a pure Pd catalyst of the same size.20 Fan et al. have designed a series of PtSnAl/SBA-15 catalysts for PDH.21 Compared with Pt, the synergistic effect of Pt and Sn can weaken the adsorption strength of propylene on it, thereby promoting the desorption and improving the selectivity for propylene. According to our previous work, single Fe atom doped C2N (Fe–C2N) has excellent catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH.22 In fact, Fe-based catalysts have been widely used in various dehydrogenation reactions due to the characteristics of low price, friendly environment and rich content, and show high catalytic activity and excellent selectivity. For example, Otero et al. have investigated seven Fen clusters (n = 16, 22, 32, 59, 80, 113, and 190) for ammonia adsorption and dehydrogenation by density functional theory (DFT), and the NH3 first dehydrogenation is favored when the size of nanoclusters increases.23 Yang et al. have found that small Fe nanoparticles display excellent performance in the dehydrogenation of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline (THQ) with 100% selectivity and 100% conversion for 10–12 h at room temperature.24 Zhang et al. have studied the adsorption and dissociation of ammonia on small Fen (n = 1, 2, 3, and 4) clusters.25 The calculated results indicate that the single Fe atom has the highest catalytic activity for the NH3 stepwise dehydrogenation, which is followed by the Fe3, Fe2 and Fe4 clusters. Based on the above analysis, it can be found that small Fe clusters have high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation reactions. However, there is a lack of research on the catalytic effect of small Fe clusters (such as Fe dimers, Fe4 and so on) on PDH. The specific mechanisms of activation and dehydrogenation of propane on small Fe clusters of different sizes are still unclear.
In this paper, the DFT method is performed to investigate the detailed mechanism and activity for PDH on smaller Fe single-cluster supported C2N catalysts (Fen–C2N, n = 2–5), and the previously studied Fe–C2N catalyst is taken as a reference. The structural stability of Fen–C2N is evaluated by comparing the average cohesive energy and the average binding energy. Then the thermodynamic stability of the screened catalyst at 873 K is studied by first principles molecular dynamics. The electronic properties of these catalysts are studied through the band structure. Fukui function analysis is further performed to predict the optimal adsorption sites for propane. The adsorption behavior of selected Fen–C2N on propane and propylene is studied and analyzed in combination with PDOS and the deformation charge density. In addition, the detailed mechanism of PDH on Fen–C2N is investigated to determine the appropriate reaction pathway.
2. Computational details
The DFT calculations with long-range dispersion correction (DFT-D) were performed using the DMol3 code in Materials Studio.26,27 The generalized gradient approximation (GGA) with the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) functional was utilized to explore the electronic exchange–correlation effects,28 and double numerical plus polarization (DNP) basis set was adopted. All structures were relaxed until the force on each atom was less than 0.004 Ha Å−1. The complete LST/QST method and a mode-eigenvector following approach were used to search the transition states of all elementary reactions.29,30 The 20 Å vacuum region was added along with the z direction which is large enough to avoid the interlayer interaction. The Monkhorst–Pack sampling was performed with the 5 × 5 × 1 k-point for computation. Furthermore, the stability of the catalysts was determined using the first principle molecular dynamics calculation simulation which was performed with NVT ensemble (V is volume, T is temperature, and N is atomic number) with a period of 1 ps and an integration time step of 1 fs. The temperature during the simulation process is controlled using the Andersen method.
The binding energy (Eb) of the single Fe atom in Fen (n = 2–5) clusters on C2N are calculated using the following formula:
Eb = 1/n × (EFen–C2N − EC2N – EFen) (1)
where EFen–C2N is the total energy of the Fen–C2N system, EC2N means the energy of pristine C2N, and EFen is the energy of the optimized Fen cluster in the gas phase.
Furthermore, the cohesive energy (Ecoh) of the single Fe atom in Fen (n = 2–5) clusters is calculated as:
Ecoh = 1/n × (E(Fen)*− n × EFe) (2)
where E(Fen)* is the energy of the Fen cluster calculated by removing C2N from optimized Fen–C2N, EFe is the energy of a single Fe atom, and n is the number of Fe atoms in the Fen cluster.
The adsorption energy (Eads) of the reaction species on Fen–C2N is defined as:
Eads = Especies-catalyst − EFen–C2N − Especies (3)
where Especies-catalyst is the total energy of the catalyst with the reaction species and Especies is the energy of the reaction species in the gas phase.
The desorption energy (Edes) of propylene can be determined by the following formula:
Edes = Esurface + Epropylene − Epropylene-surface (4)
where Esurface represents the energy of the remaining catalyst and the two adsorbed H atoms after propylene removal, Epropylene denotes the energy of the removed propylene and Epropylene-surface indicates the total energy when propylene and two H atoms are co-adsorbed on Fen–C2N.
What's more, the activation barrier (Ea) and reaction energy (ΔE) are calculated using the following equations:
Ea = ETS − EIS (5)
ΔE = EFS − EIS (6)
where ETS, EIS, and EFS are the total energies of the transition state (TS), initial state (IS), and final state (FS), respectively.
3. Results and discussion
3.1 The geometric structure and stability of Fen–C2N
In the C2N monolayer, the cavity is electron-rich due to the presence of six negatively charged nitrogen atoms, so the cavity becomes an ideal location for fixing metal atoms. The corresponding pure C2N configuration is shown in Fig. 1, and the region of Fen clusters supported is marked by the red dotted line. To ensure a more comprehensive consideration, different shapes of stable configurations from Fe2 to Fe5 clusters have been included in this study, and their optimized structures are shown in Fig. S1 (ESI†). Fe2 has a linear configuration, with a distance of 1.991 Å between two Fe atoms. Fe3 is a planar triangular structure, with an average bond length of 2.346 Å of two Fe atoms. The Fe4 cluster has tetrahedron and butterfly-like configurations, and the Fe5 cluster also possesses two configurations called the square pyramid and triangular bipyramid.
Fig. 1 Top and side views of the C2N structure.
The optimized structures of Fen–C2N clusters and the bond lengths of Fe–Fe bonds are demonstrated in Fig. S2 (ESI†). It can be seen from Fig. S2(a) and (b) (ESI†) that the cavity of C2N can fully accommodate Fe2 and Fe3 clusters, and they can maintain a perfect monolayer structure. For Fe4 clusters, the butterfly-like configuration no longer maintains a planar structure. Besides, the bond lengths of Fe–Fe bonds in the supported Fen clusters have changed compared to before supporting. For Fe2, the Fe–Fe bond length increases from 1.991 Å before supporting to 2.100 Å after supporting. For the Fe3 cluster, there is no significant change in the average bond length of the Fe–Fe bond before and after supporting (2.346 Å vs. 2.345 Å). Mullikan charge analysis of Fen clusters supported on C2N is conducted. As listed in Table S1 (ESI†), the electrons can be transferred from metal clusters to the C2N carrier, resulting in all supported Fen clusters being positively charged.
In order to evaluate whether Fen (n = 2–5) can be stably anchored on C2N, the binding energy (Eb) and cohesive energy (Ecoh) are calculated and the results are shown in Fig. 2. As we all know, the more negative the Eb value is, the more stable the bonding of the metal cluster and C2N structure is. It can be concluded that the Eb values of Fen–C2N (n = 2–4) structures are more negative than the Ecoh values of the corresponding isolated Fen cluster, which means that the Fe2, Fe3, and Fe4 clusters can be well dispersed on the C2N surface rather than agglomeration. The calculation result of the Fe5 cluster shows that the Ecoh value is more negative than the Eb value on C2N, which will result in metal agglomeration. Moreover, with the increase of Fe atoms, the Eb value of the Fen cluster on C2N increases gradually, which means that the interaction between the Fen cluster and the C2N support gradually weakens. In contrast, the Ecoh value decreases with the increase of Fe atoms, showing that metal aggregation is easier. In particular, the tetrahedral Fe4 cluster possesses a more negative Eb value than that of the butterfly-like Fe4 cluster, which means that the former is more stably supported on C2N than the latter. Therefore, Fe2-C2N, Fe3-C2N, and tetrahedral Fe4-C2N will be used for subsequent research.
Fig. 2 Binding energies and cohesive energies of Fe2, Fe3, Fe4-1 (tetrahedron), Fe4-2 (butterfly), Fe5-1 (square pyramid) and Fe5-5 (triangular bipyramid).
In order to further verify the thermodynamic stability of the screened Fen–C2N structure, first principle molecular dynamics is further carried out. Since the propane dehydrogenation reaction generally occurs in a high temperature environment in industry, 873 K temperatures is applied in the simulation environment.31,32Fig. 3 shows the atomic structure and potential energy fluctuation after the reaction, and the corresponding fluctuation amplitude of the temperature in this process is also shown. It can be observed from Fig. 3 that the structure of Fen–C2N catalysts only presents slight structural deformation at high temperature without bond fracture. The structural integrity is always maintained and the fluctuation of energy with time is relatively small. These results show that all Fen–C2N structures remain stable at high temperatures, and their thermodynamic stability shows their ability to catalyze the PDH reaction at high temperature.
Fig. 3 Fluctuation of potential energy and temperature of (a) Fe2-C2N, (b) Fe3-C2N, and (c) Fe4-C2N at 873 K.
To evaluate the electronic properties of pure C2N and Fen–C2N, the calculated energy band structure of the clean C2N and Fen–C2N are shown in Fig. 4 and the reason for unmarked band gap diagrams of Fe2-C2N is due to their extremely small or almost non-existent band gaps. What can be seen from Fig. 4(a) is that the C2N monolayer is equipped with semiconductor properties, and the direct band gap is 1.703 eV, which is consistent with the result using another DFT method.33,34 Furthermore, the results in Fig. 4(b)–(d) clearly demonstrate that the band gaps of Fe2, Fe3 and Fe4 clusters are all less than 0.5 eV, and there are energy band curves across the Fermi level, which illustrate the metallic properties of Fen–C2N (n = 2–4), and this metallic property makes the catalyst exhibit an excellent charge transfer ability that will benefit the performance of the catalysts. The reason for the unmarked band gap diagrams of Fe2-C2N is due to their extremely small or almost non-existent band gaps. Thus, Fen–C2N. Furthermore, it is well known that two-dimensional C2N materials have the characteristics of non-magnetic ground states.35 As a result of the presence of d-orbitals electrons and the spin magnetic moments in Fe, the C2N loaded with Fe clusters exhibits magnetism, which leads to the appearance of two types of energy band curves representing spin up and spin down separately. The non-coincidence of these two energy band curves is due to the imbalance of the electronic states in the magnetic system, which leads to two different energy curves.36,37
Fig. 4 Band structures of (a) pure C2N, (b) Fe2-C2N, (c) Fe3-C2N, and (d) Fe4-C2N.
3.2 Adsorption of reaction species
In order to identify the exact position of the most active site in the active region on the catalyst, the Fukui function analysis is used, which usually determines the possibility of the active region being attacked by calculating the electrophilic attack index (f
(−)
i
) and nucleophilic attack index (f
(+)
i
).38 As a matter of fact, the area where the positive value of f
(−)
i
is large, electrophilic attacks prefer to occur at this site and exhibit a donated electron property. Therefore, this site is active enough to serve as the most suitable adsorption site.39,40 The values of the Fukui function analysis of each Fe atom on Fen–C2N (n = 2–4) are remarked in Fig. 5 and the position with the largest index is taken as the best adsorption site. The propane and propylene are first adsorbed respectively according to the position with the maximum value calculated through the Fukui function analysis shown in Fig. 5. And the adsorption energy results are put into Fig. 6, where the purple dotted line marks the adsorption energy results of propane and propylene adsorbed on Fe–C2N, respectively. Besides, the corresponding stable adsorption configurations of propane and propylene on the Fen–C2N (n = 2–4) are shown in Fig. S3 (ESI†).
Fig. 5 Fukui indices of each Fe atom on (a) Fe2-C2N, (b) Fe3-C2N, and (c) Fe4-C2N.
Fig. 6 Adsorption energies Eads of propane and propylene on Fen–C2N (n = 2–4) after DFT-D correction. (The adsorption energy of propane and propylene on the Fe–C2N catalyst, shown by the purple dashed line, is also corrected by DFT-D.)
As we all know, the stable adsorption of propane on the catalyst will be conducive to the subsequent reaction. In order to enable the target product propylene to be timely desorbed from the surface of the catalyst, this requires the adsorption strength of propylene and catalyst to not be too strong to prevent further dehydrogenation of propylene, thereby avoiding the decrease in selectivity and yield in propylene.41–43Fig. 6 shows the Eads values of propane and propylene are all negative, indicating that they can form stable adsorption with the catalysts. Besides, the ideal situation is that propane adsorbs more firmly to the catalyst than propylene.44–46 For Fe3-C2N and Fe4-C2N, the adsorption strength of propane is much weaker than that of propylene, which means that the catalyst may not be conducive to propylene desorption. The difference is that the ability of Fe2-C2N to adsorb propylene is weaker than the ability to adsorb propane, which is conducive to the PDH reaction. Compared to the best catalyst Fe–C2N previously studied, a better catalyst should have more stable propane adsorption and less strong propylene adsorption. It can be deduced from Fig. 6 that the adsorption energies of propane on Fe2-C2N and Fe3-C2N are superior to that on Fe–C2N (Eads = −0.87 eV). This stronger adsorption of propane is beneficial for the subsequent dehydrogenation reaction. However, the propane adsorption on Fe4-C2N is less stable than that on Fe–C2N. Furthermore, in order to facilitate the subsequent adsorption of propylene, it is required that the adsorption energy of propylene should not be too strong. Surprisingly, in the catalytic reaction conducted on Fe2-C2N, the adsorption energy of propane (−1.28 eV) is stronger than that on Fe–C2N (−0.87 eV), while the adsorption energy of propylene (−1.02 eV) is weaker than that on Fe–C2N (−1.72 eV), which is an ideal situation. Overall, Fe2-C2N exhibits great potential for catalytic PDH reactions.
Electronic structure analysis is a useful method for understanding the reaction trend of Fen–C2N catalysts. Hence, we calculated the d-band center (εd) values of Fen–C2N and plotted them in Fig. 7, which also includes the adsorption energy values of propane and propylene. The trend lines in Fig. 7 show that the variation trend of the adsorption energy of propane and propylene on the Fen–C2N catalysts is strictly consistent with the change in the εd values of these catalysts. In particular, the most negative εd value is found on Fe3-C2N, and the adsorption energy of both propane and propylene are the strongest on this Fe3-C2N. Therefore, the εd of the single cluster catalysts may be used as a predictor of the change trend of adsorption energy of the adsorbed species.
Fig. 7 Scaling relationships between εd values of Fen–C2N (n = 2–4) with the Eads of propane and propylene.
Structurally, there is a strong synergistic effect between the two Fe metal atoms in the Fe2-C2N catalytic system, which will lead to a redistribution of the electron density, which is beneficial to the activation of C–H bonds and the adsorption of propane on the catalyst, but inhibit the interaction between π bond and metal atoms in propylene.47,48 Rong et al. proposed that when a loaded atomic cluster contains more than two metal atoms, the synergistic effect of improving the catalytic performance between metals at different locations is unique.49 This may be because the size and shape of atomic clusters become more complex when the number of metal atoms increases, which will lead to fewer adsorption sites or weaker adsorption site interactions. As can be seen from Fig. 5 and Fig. S3 (ESI†), when the substance is adsorbed to the catalyst surface, the doped metal clusters have a certain degree of displacement or deformation.
To explore the charge transfer and the bonding properties between propane and propylene and the catalyst, the partial density of states (PDOS) is further calculated to understand the participation of related orbitals and electron transfer of propane or propylene molecules in the reaction process. The PDOS diagrams of propane and propylene adsorbed on Fe2-C2N are shown in Fig. 8 and those adsorbed on the rest of Fe3-, Fe4-C2N are shown in Fig. S4 and S5 (ESI†). To facilitate the comparison of energy level changes before and after propane and propylene adsorption, the upper half of each diagram depicts the energy level distribution when propane or propylene is not adsorbed. It can be concluded from PDOS diagrams that propane and propylene are injected with electrons in the antibonding molecular orbital above the Fermi energy level after adsorption, and the energy level orbit evidently moves towards the direction of low energy, which proves that there are metal electrons injected into the molecular orbital of propane or propylene, making the reaction molecules activated. In the comparison graph, it can be observed that several obvious peaks in the low-energy parts of propane and propylene have undergone significant displacement after being adsorbed onto the catalyst, and there is a significant overlap between the d-orbitals of the metal and the s and p-orbitals of the adsorbent, which can prove the interaction between the adsorbent and the catalyst. And the deformation charge density of the corresponding structures is further calculated and the results are listed in Fig. 9. In the deformation charge density results shown in Fig. 9, the blue area represents the accumulation of charges here, while the light-yellow area represents charge depletion. It is intuitive to investigate that the Fen on C2N overlaps with the species adsorbed on it in an obvious electron cloud area based on the results in Fig. 9, which means that there are large numbers of electron transfer between them, so as to create a strong interaction between propane or propylene and the catalyst substrate.
Fig. 8 Density of states (DOS) of (a) propane and (b) propylene adsorbed on Fe2-C2N. The upper part of each image shows the orbitals of the free propane.
Fig. 9 Deformation charge density plots for propane (left) and propylene (right) adsorbed on (a) Fe2-C2N, (b) Fe3-C2N and (c) Fe4-C2N.
3.3 Mechanism of PDH on Fen–C2N
As shown in Fig. 10, the main reaction steps of propane dehydrogenation are illustrated. In order to form propylene, two of the H atoms need to be dissociated from propane. As we know, the dissociation of the first H atom consists of two main routes, one is to remove the H of methylene to form CH3CHCH3 and the other is to remove the H of methyl to form CH3CH2CH2, then further remove the second H atom from CH3CH2CH2 or CH3CHCH3 to produce propylene (CH3CHCH2).50,51 Therefore, in order to test the catalytic activity of the catalyst designed in this study on the PDH reaction, the activation energy barrier (Ea) and reaction energies (ΔE) of the PDH elementary reactions are calculated according to route I and route II and the relevant data are listed in Fig. 11(a) and (b) respectively. For ease of observation, the energy barriers of the corresponding reaction steps of PDH catalyzed by Fe–C2N are also listed in Fig. 11. And the corresponding IS, TS and FS are all shown in Fig. 12 and Fig. S6–S10 (ESI†). Subsequently, to facilitate the distinction of two routes in Fig. 11, the step that catalyzing further dehydrogenation of propylene to form CH3CCH2 on Fen–C2N is labeled as Fen-I, while the step to form CH3CHCH is labeled as Fen-II.
Fig. 10 Schematic diagram of the main reaction steps for propane dehydrogenation.
Fig. 11 Potential energy and reaction energy diagrams of the elementary reactions involved in the PDH reaction on Fen–C2N (n = 1–4) to form CH3CCH2 (a), to form CH3CHCH (b) and to form H2 (c). (In (c), Fen-(a) and (b) represents the continuous process illustrated in (a) and (b), catalyzed by Fen–C2N).
Fig. 12 Optimized configurations of IS, TS, and FS on Fe2-C2N along route I.
It is well known that the H dissociation step with the highest Ea value is considered as the rate-determining step (RDS),52 which determines the minimum energy condition required for the PDH reaction to fully occur. Then, it is necessary to consider the desorption and further dehydrogenation of propylene for evaluating selectivity.53 Generally speaking, potential PDH catalysts first need to have sufficient activity to catalyze C–H bond cleavage of propane molecules. Previous studies have pointed out that the lower the ΔE of propane breaking the C–H bond for the first time on the catalyst, the easier it is to activate propane.54 What stands out is that the ΔE of the first dehydrogenation of propane along route I (in Fig. 11(a)) and route II (in Fig. 11(b)) on Fe2-C2N and Fe3-C2N is no more than 0.74 eV (except along the route II catalyzed by Fe4-C2N), and even the ΔE of both routes on Fe3-C2N is negative, which are close to the ΔE of many existing good PDH catalysts, such as on Cr2O3 is 0.73 eV55 and even lower than on Pt2Sn is 0.82 eV.56 This implies that these catalysts have enough high catalytic activity. What's more, as shown in Fig. 11, the Ea of the RDS of Fe2-C2N, Fe3-C2N and Fe4-C2N in route I are 0.97 eV, 1.16 eV and 1.56 eV, respectively, and in route II are 3.87 eV, 1.57 eV and 3.42 eV, respectively. It can be seen that the catalyst needs to overcome a higher energy barrier in the catalytic reaction along route II than that along route I, and the Fe2-C2N, Fe3-C2N and Fe4-C2N catalyzed PDH reactions along route I are more favorable. Therefore, the PDH reaction on the catalyst we studied is mainly carried out according to the CH3CHCH3 formation route. It is noteworthy that Fe2-C2N has the lowest Ea of RDS of 0.97 eV, which is even lower than that catalyzed on Fe–C2N that we studied which is 1.04 eV. Although the rate-limiting step barrier of Fe–C2N and Fe2-C2N is slightly higher than Pt (Ea = 0.7 eV), it is still lower than many existing catalysts with good PDH activity, such as V2O3 (Ea = 1.12 eV),57 Pt2Sn/Pt(111) (Ea = 1.22 eV)58 and Pd(111) (Ea = 1.26 eV).59 In a word, it can be seen that both Ea and ΔE of propane dehydrogenation occurring on Fe2-C2N are lower than those occurring on Fe–C2N, which also confirmed that DACs can catalyze the PDH reaction better than SACs.17 It's worth mentioning that the highly dispersed Fe2 clusters loaded on mesoporous carbon nitride (mpg-C3N4) were successfully prepared by Wang and his co-workers through an impregnation method of “preselection of precursors”.60 And Sun et al. also achieved the synthesis of the high-quality Pt–Ru heteronuclear dimers on nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes by a two-step atomic layer deposition (ALD) approach.61 Recently, Li et al. reported a successful electrochemical potential window strategy for the preparation of Pt3 and Ni3 SCCs anchored on graphdiyne.62 Furthermore, Yao et al. devised a facile method for the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Au4Pt2/G SCC, which contained a partially ligand-protected six-metal-atom (four Au and two Pt) octahedral cluster anchored on graphene for ENRR.63 Based on these similar methods, our cluster can probably be synthesized.
Another requirement for an effective PDH catalyst is to prevent excessive dehydrogenation of propylene leading to coke formation and catalyst poisoning. Considering the further dehydrogenation of propylene is directly related to the selectivity of the target product, the ΔE and Ea of the two paths for further dehydrogenation of propylene are considered in Fig. 11(a) and (b). According to Fig. 11(a) and (b), it can be seen that the ΔE for further dehydrogenation of propylene are higher than those to form propylene and the same trend applies to Ea. In addition, it can be concluded that the Ea value for further dehydrogenation of propylene through two paths along route I are both greater than 2.7 eV and ΔE is greater than 2.2 eV, both of which are much larger than the Ea and ΔE values of propylene generation. Furthermore, Fig. 11(c) shows the desorption energy of propylene catalyzed by Fen–C2N along the paths shown in Fig. 11(a) and (b), as well as the Ea and ΔE of the process of the co-adsorbed two H atoms to form the gaseous H2, and the corresponding IS, TS and FS are all shown in Fig. S11 (ESI†). It is worth noting that, at this stage, propylene is affected by the co-adsorption of two H atoms, thus resulting in different energy levels compared to the pure propylene adsorbed on Fen–C2N. It can be seen from the Fig. 11(c) that the desorption energy of propylene at Fe2-C2N is significantly lower than the energy barrier of deep dehydrogenation of propylene shown in Fig. 11(a) and (b), so the desorption of propylene is more likely to occur than deep hydrogenation, which further confirms that the Fe2-C2N possesses excellent propylene selectivity. In addition, the low energy barrier of the H2 formation on Fe2-C2N indicates that H2 can be desorbed from the catalyst in time, which is conducive to the occurrence of propane dehydrogenation reaction.64,65 Overall, Fe2-C2N exhibits an excellent catalytic performance and high propylene selectivity in the PDH reaction process, and is expected to become a potential catalyst for non-oxidative PDH reactions.
4. Conclusions
In this study, DFT calculations were conducted to explore the performance and mechanism of single cluster catalysts (Fe2-Fe5) anchored on periodic C2N monolayers in catalyzing PDH reactions. By comparing the binding energy and cohesive energy, it can be seen that Fe2-C2N, Fe3-C2N, and tetrahedral Fe4-C2N have better stability, and first principles molecular dynamics calculation has also proved their stability. The energy band structure diagrams of the C2N structure before and after doping with metal clusters were calculated, and it was found that the C2N structure after doping with metal clusters exhibited metal characteristics. Fe2-C2N has strong propane adsorption capacity and weak propylene adsorption capacity, showing great potential in catalytic PDH reactions. To ascertain the catalytic activity of these studied catalysts, the activation barrier and reaction energy of the catalytic process are evaluated, and it can be concluded that small Fe clusters composed of limited numbers anchored on C2N, such as Fe2-C2N (Ea = 0.97 eV, ΔE = 0.22 eV), have a significantly better catalytic activity than Fe–C2N. In addition, for the sake of estimating the productivity of the target product propylene, the ΔE and Ea of two different species CH3CCH2 and CH3CHCH through two paths for propylene over-dehydrogenation are also considered, and finally receive higher values compared to the step of propylene generation. This means that propane reactions on these catalysts have high propylene yields. All results confirm that the final product catalyzed by these catalysts is more likely to be propylene, which is also the purpose of this study. Among them, Fe2-C2N is determined as the optimal catalyst for PDH, with an Ea value of RDS of only 0.97 eV. In summary, the results studied in this article can provide clear guidance for the further design of more efficient and promising single cluster catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.
Author contributions
Yu Zhang: formal analysis, investigation, writing – original draft. Qin Chen: writing – review & editing. Hui Zhang: writing – review & editing.
Conflicts of interest
The authors report no declarations of interest.
Acknowledgements
This work is supported by the Local Science and Technology Development Fund Projects Guided by the Central Government of China (2021ZYD0060), the Science and Technology Project of Southwest Petroleum University (2021JBGS03), and the Chengdu International Science and Technology Cooperation Fund (2020GH0200069HZ).
References
J. Liu , W. Luo , Y. Yin , X. Z. Fu and J. L. Luo , Understanding the origin for propane non-oxidative dehydrogenation catalyzed by d2–d8 transition metals, J. Catal., 2021, 396 , 333 —341 CrossRef CAS .
R. T. Hannagan , G. Giannakakis , R. Réocreux , J. Schumann , J. Finzel , Y. Wang , A. Michaelides , P. Deshlahra , P. Christopher , M. Flytzani-Stephanopoulos , M. Stamatakis and E. C. Sykes , First-principles design of a single-atom-alloy propane dehydrogenation catalyst, Science, 2021, 372 , 1444 —1447 CrossRef CAS .
J. J. H. B. Sattler , J. Ruiz-Martinez , E. Santillan-Jimenez and B. M. Weckhuysen , Catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes on metals and metal oxides, Chem. Rev., 2014, 114 , 10613 —10653 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
Z. J. Zhao , C. C. Chiu and J. L. Gong , Molecular understandings on the activation of light hydrocarbons over heterogeneous catalysts, Chem. Sci., 2015, 6 , 4403 —4425 RSC .
Z.-P. Hu , D. Yang , Z. Wang and Z.-Y. Yuan , State-of-the-art catalysts for direct dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, Chin. J. Catal., 2019, 40 , 1233 —1254 CrossRef CAS .
R. Li , C. Zhang , S. Li and Y. Du , Experimental and theoretical investigations into propane dehydrogenation over MIL-101(Cr/Al) derived catalysts, Mol. Catal., 2023, 535 , 112894 CrossRef CAS .
K. Searles , K. W. Chan , J. A. M. Burak , D. Zemlyanov , O. Safonova and C. Copéret , Highly Productive Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst Using Silica-Supported Ga–Pt Nanoparticles Generated from Single-Sites, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140 , 11674 —11679 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. Wang , Y.-H. Song , Z.-T. Liu and Z.-W. Liu , Active and selective nature of supported CrOx for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane with carbon dioxide, Appl. Catal., B, 2021, 297 , 120400 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Yang , R. Song , X. Fan , Y. Liu , N. Kong , H. Lin and Y. Li , A mechanistic study of selective propane dehydrogenations on MoS2 supported single Fe atoms, Chin. Chem. Lett., 2023, 34 , 1070257 Search PubMed .
W. Song , Y. Kang , M. Yang , Z. Li , L. Chen , Z. Zhao and J. Liu , Promoting propane dehydrogenation via strain engineering on iridium single-atom catalyst, Fuel, 2022, 311 , 122580 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Yang , J. Wang , H. Lin , H. Dong and Y. Li , On-purpose design of dual active sites in single V atom anchored C2N nanosheets for propane dehydrogenation catalysis, Inorg. Chem. Front., 2022, 9 , 5517 —5526 RSC .
C.-H. Chen , D. Wu , Z. Li , R. Zhang , C.-G. Kuai , X.-R. Zhao , C.-K. Dong , S.-Z. Qiao , H. Liu and X.-W. Du , Ruthenium-Based Single-Atom Alloy with High Electrocatalytic Activity for Hydrogen Evolution, Adv. Energy Mater., 2019, 9 , 1803913 CrossRef .
H. Xiao , W. A. Goddard , T. Cheng and Y. Liu , Cu metal embedded in oxidized matrix catalyst to promote CO2 activation and CO dimerization for electrochemical reduction of CO2, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A., 2017, 114 , 6685 —6688 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
X. Hong , K. Chan , C. Tsai and J. K. Nørskov , How Doped MoS2 Breaks Transition-Metal Scaling Relations for CO2 Electrochemical Reduction, ACS Catal., 2016, 6 , 4428 CrossRef CAS .
P. Song , M. Luo , X. Liu , W. Xing , W. Xu , Z. Jiang and L. Gu , Zn single atom catalyst for highly efficient oxygen reduction reaction, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2017, 27 , 1700802 CrossRef .
L. Zhang , J. M. T. A. Fischer , Y. Jia , X. Yan , W. Xu , X. Wang , J. Chen , D. Yang , H. Liu , L. Zhuang , M. Hankel , D. J. Searles , K. Huang , S. Feng , C. L. Brown and X. Yao , Coordination of Atomic Co–Pt Coupling Species at Carbon Defects as Active Sites for Oxygen Reduction Reaction, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140 , 10757 —10763 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. Liu , D. Cao , H. Xu and D. Cheng , From double-atom catalysts to single-cluster catalysts: A new frontier in heterogeneous catalysis, Nano Select., 2020, 2 , 251 —270 CrossRef .
P. Lv , W. Lv , D. Wu , G. Tang , X. Yan , Z. Lu and D. Ma , Ultrahigh-Density Double-Atom Catalyst with Spin Moment as an Activity Descriptor for the Oxygen-Reduction Reaction, Phys. Rev. Appl., 2023, 19 , 054094 CrossRef CAS .
Z. W. Chen , L. X. Chen , M. Jiang , D. Chen , Z. L. Wang , X. Yao , C. V. Singh and Q. Jiang , A triple atom catalyst with ultrahigh loading potential for nitrogen electrochemical reduction, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2020, 8 , 15086 RSC .
C. Yang , Z. Wu , G. Zhang , H. Sheng , J. Tian , Z. Duan , H. Sohn , A. J. Kropf , T. Wu , T. R. Krause and J. T. Miller , Promotion of Pd nanoparticles by Fe and formation of a Pd3Fe intermetallic alloy for propane dehydrogenation, Catal. Today, 2019, 323 , 123 —128 CrossRef CAS .
X. Fang , J. Li , Z. Zhao , Y. Wei , J. Liu , A. Duan and G. Jiang , Dehydrogenation of propane over PtSnAl/SBA-15 catalysts: Al addition effect and coke formation analysis, Catal. Sci. Technol., 2015, 5 , 339 —350 RSC .
Y. Zhang , X. Chen , A. M. Ali and H. Zhang , Screening of transition metal doped two-dimensional C2N (TM-C2N) as high-performance catalyst for the non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation, Mol. Catal., 2022, 528 , 112501 CrossRef CAS .
G. S. Otero , B. Pascucci , M. M. Branda , R. Miotto and P. G. Belelli , Evaluating the size of Fe nanoparticles for ammonia adsorption and dehydrogenation, Comput. Mater. Sci., 2016, 124 , 220 —227 CrossRef CAS .
W. Yang , Y. Zhu , J. Li , Z. Chen , F. Nosheen , Q. Zhang and Z. Zhang , Understanding the dehydrogenation mechanism over iron nanoparticles catalysts based on density functional theory, Chinese, Chem. Lett., 2021, 32 , 286 —290 CrossRef CAS .
X. Zhang , Z. Lu , D. Ma and Z. Yang , Adsorption and dissociation of ammonia on small iron clusters, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2015, 40 , 346 —352 CrossRef CAS .
B. Delley An all-electron numerical method for solving the local density functional for polyatomic molecules, J. Chem. Phys., 1990, 92 , 508 —517 CrossRef CAS .
B. Delley From molecules to solids with the DMol3 approach, J. Chem. Phys., 2000, 113 , 7756 —7764 CrossRef CAS .
C. Lee , W. Yang and R. G. Parr , Development of the Colle-Salvetti correlation-energy formula into a functional of the electron density, Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys., 1988, 37 , 785 —789 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
T. A. Halgren and W. N. Lipscomb , The synchronous-transit method for determining reaction pathways and locating molecular transition states, Chem. Phys. Lett., 1977, 49 , 225 —232 CrossRef CAS .
N. Govind , M. Petersen , G. Fitzgerald , D. King-Smith and J. Andzelm , A generalized synchronous transit method for transition state location, Comp, Mater. Sci., 2003, 28 , 250 —258 CrossRef CAS .
L. Deng , S. Han , Y. Li and W. Shen , Subnanometric Pt-Sn Monolayers Over a Rod-Shaped Al2O3 for Propane Dehydrogenation, ChemCatChem, 2022, 14 , 202200400 CrossRef .
J. Ko , J. A. Muhlenkamp , Y. Bonita , N. J. LiBretto , J. T. Miller , J. C. Hicks and W. F. Schneider , Experimental and Computational Investigation of the Role of P in Moderating Ethane Dehydrogenation Performance over Ni-Based Catalysts, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2020, 59 , 12666 —12676 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Su , Z. Ao , Y. Ji , G. Li and T. An , Adsorption mechanism of different volatile organic compounds onto pristine C2N and Al-doped C2N monolayer: a DFT investigation, Appl. Surf. Sci., 2018, 50 , 84 —491 Search PubMed .
B. Xu , H. Xiang , Q. Wei , J. Q. Liu , Y. D. Xia and J. Yin , et al., Two-dimensional graphene-like C2N: an experimentally available porous membrane for hydrogen purification, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2015, 17 , 15115 —15118 RSC .
J. Du , C. Xia , W. Xiong , X. Zhao , T. Wang and Y. Jia , Tuning the electronic structures and magnetism of two-dimensional porous C2N via transition metal embedding, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2016, 18 , 22678 —22686 RSC .
W.-Y. Tong , H.-C. Ding , Y.-C. Gao , S.-J. Gong , X. Wan and C.-G. Duan , Spin-dependent optical response of multiferroic EuO: First-principles DFT calculations, Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys., 2014, 89 , 064404 CrossRef .
M. Alattas and U. Schwingenschlögl , Quasi-freestanding graphene on Ni(111) by Cs intercalation, Sci. Rep., 2016, 6 , 26753 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
Y. Zhu , S. Qiu , F. Deng , F. Ma and Y. Zheng , Degradation of sulfathiazole by electro-Fenton using a nitrogen-doped cathode and a BDD anode: Insight into the H2O2 generation and radical oxidation, Sci. Total Environ., 2020, 722 , 137853 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
B. Liu , X. Ren , Q. Lv , Y. Wang and A. Liu , Theoretical study of the oxygen reduction reaction on Ni–N–C and Co–N–C catalysts derived from ZIF-8, Int. J. Energy Res., 2021, 45 , 8857 —8870 CrossRef CAS .
S. K. Singh , X. Crispin and I. V. Zozoulenko , Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Conducting Polymer PEDOT: Density Functional Theory Study, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2017, 121 , 12270 —12277 CrossRef CAS .
L. Xiao , F. Ma , Y.-A. Zhu , Z.-J. Sui , J.-H. Zou , X.-G. Zhou , D. Chen and W.-K. Yuan , Improved selectivity and coke resistance of core-shell alloy catalysts for propane dehydrogenation from first principles and microkinetic analysis, Chem. Eng. J., 2019, 377 , 120049 CrossRef CAS .
C. Yu , Q. Ge , H. Xu and W. Li , Propane dehydrogenation to propylene over Pt-based catalysts, Catal. Lett., 2006, 112 , 3 —4 CrossRef .
J. Liu , C. Liu , A. Ma , J. Rong , Z. Da , A. Zheng and L. Qin , Effects of Al2O3 phase and Cl component on dehydrogenation of propane, Appl. Surf. Sci., 2016, 368 , 233240 Search PubMed .
L. Nykanen and K. Honkala , Density functional theory study on propane and propene adsorption on Pt(111) and PtSn alloy surfaces, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2011, 115 , 9578 —9586 CrossRef CAS .
X. Sun , J. Xue , Y. Ren , X. Li , L. Zhou , B. Li and Z. Zhao , Catalytic Property and Stability of Subnanometer Pt Cluster on Carbon Nanotube in Direct Propane Dehydrogenation, Chin. J. Catal., 2021, 39 , 661 —665 CrossRef CAS .
J. H. Carter , T. Bere , J. R. Pitchers , D. G. Hewes , B. D. Vandegehuchte , C. J. Kiely , S. H. Taylor and G. J. Hutchings , Direct and oxidative dehydrogenation of propane: from catalyst design to industrial application, Green Chem., 2021, 23 , 9747 —9799 RSC .
C. Rodaum , P. Chaipornchalerm , W. Nunthakitgoson , A. Thivasasith , T. Maihom , T. Atithep , P. Kidkhunthod , C. Uthayopas , S. Nutanon , S. Thongratkaew , K. Faungnawakij and C. Wattanakit , Highly efficient propane dehydrogenation promoted by reverse water–gas shift reaction on Pt–Zn alloy surfaces, Fuel, 2022, 325 , 124833 CrossRef CAS .
M. Martino , E. Meloni , G. Festa and V. Palma , Propylene synthesis: Recent advances in the use of Pt-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation reaction, Catalysts, 2021, 11 , 1070 CrossRef CAS .
H. Rong , S. Ji , J. Zhang , D. Wang and Y. Li , Synthetic strategies of supported atomic clusters for heterogeneous catalysis, Nat. Commun., 2020, 11 , 1 —14 CrossRef PubMed .
Z. Zhai , B. Zhang , L. Wang , X. Zhang and G. Liu , Tailoring the catalytic performance of single platinum anchored on graphene by vacancy engineering for propane dehydrogenation: a theoretical study, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2021, 23 , 22004 —22013 RSC .
W. Bian , X. Shen , H. Tan , X. Fan , Y. Liu , H. Lin and Y. Li , The triggering of catalysis via structural engineering at atomic level: direct propane dehydrogenation on Fe–N3P–C, Chin. Chem. Lett., 2023, 34 , 107289 CrossRef CAS .
J.Allred, C.Smith and S.Zygmunt, Altering the Activity of a Ni4 Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation Using a Nitrogen-Doped Graphene Support, 2018, https://scholar.valpo.edu/sires/40.
B. Feng , Y.-C. Wei , W.-Y. Song and C.-M. Xu , A review on the structure-performance relationship of the catalysts during propane dehydrogenation reaction, Petrol. Sci., 2022, 19 , 819 —838 CrossRef CAS .
D. Zhong , J.-H. Franke , S. K. Podiyanachari , T. Blömker , H. Zhang , G. Kehr , G. Erker , H. Fuchs and L. Chi , Linear alkane polymerization on a gold surface, Science, 2011, 334 , 213 —216 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
N. Kong , X. Fan , F. Liu , L. Wang , H. Lin , Y. Li and S.-T. Lee , Single vanadium atoms anchored on graphitic carbon nitride as a high-performance catalyst for non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation, ACS Nano, 2020, 14 , 5772 —5779 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M.-L. Yang , Y.-A. Zhu , X.-G. Zhou , Z.-J. Sui and D. Chen , First-Principles Calculations of Propane Dehydrogenation over PtSn Catalysts, ACS Catal., 2012, 2 , 1247 —1258 CrossRef CAS .
J. Zhang , R.-J. Zhou , Q.-Y. Chang , Z.-J. Sui , X.-G. Zhou , D. Chen and Y.-A. Zhu , Tailoring catalytic properties of V2O3 to propane dehydrogenation through single-atom doping: a DFT study, Catal. Today, 2021, 368 , 46 —57 CrossRef CAS .
M.-L. Yang , Y.-A. Zhu , X.-G. Zhou , Z.-J. Sui and D. Chen , First-principles calculations of propane dehydrogenation over PtSn catalysts, ACS Catal., 2012, 12 , 1247 —1258 CrossRef .
R. R. Seemakurthi , G. Canning , Z. Wu , J. T. Miller , A. K. Datye and J. Greeley , Identification of a selectivity descriptor for propane dehydrogenation through density functional and microkinetic analysis on pure Pd and Pd alloys, ACS Catal., 2021, 11 , 9588 —9604 CrossRef CAS .
S. Tian , Q. Fu , W. Chen , Q. Feng , Z. Chen , J. Zhang , W.-C. Cheong , R. Yu , L. Gu , J. Dong , J. Luo , C. Chen , Q. Peng , C. Draxl , D. Wang and Y. Li , Carbon nitride supported Fe2 cluster catalysts with superior performance for alkene epoxidation, Nat. Commun., 2018, 9 , 2353 CrossRef PubMed .
L. Zhang , R. Si , H. Liu , N. Chen , Q. Wang , K. Adair , Z. Wang , J. Chen , Z. Song , J. Li , M. N. Banis , R. Li , T.-K. Sham , M. Gu , L.-M. Liu , G. A. Botton and X. Sun , Atomic layer deposited Pt-Ru dual-metal dimers and identifying their active sites for hydrogen evolution reaction, Nat. Commun., 2019, 10 , 4936 CrossRef PubMed .
J.-C. Liu , H. Xiao and J. Li , Constructing High-Loading Single-Atom/Cluster Catalysts via an Electrochemical Potential Window Strategy, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 142 , 3375 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
C. Yao , N. Guo , S. Xi , C.-Q. Xu , W. Liu , X. Zhao , J. Li , H. Fang , J. Su , Z. Chen , H. Yan , Z. Qiu , P. Lyu , C. Chen , H. Xu , X. Peng , X. Li , B. Liu , C. Su , S. J. Pennycook , C.-J. Sun , J. Li , C. Zhang , Y. Du and J. Lu , Atomically-precise dopant-controlled single cluster catalysis for electrochemical nitrogen reduction, Nat. Commun., 2020, 11 , 4389 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Ni , R. Khare , R. Bermejo-Deval , R. Zhao , L. Tao , Y. Liu and J. A. Lercher , Highly Active and Selective Sites for Propane Dehydrogenation in Zeolite Ga-BEA, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2022, 144 , 12347 —12356 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
G. Yan and Di. G. Vlachos , Unraveling Multiscale Kinetics over Subnanometer Cluster Catalysts: H2 Desorption from Pt3(-H)2/γ-Al2O3(110), ACS Catal., 2023, 13 , 10602 —10614 CrossRef CAS .
Footnote
† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/10.1039/d3cp03204c
This journal is © the Owner Societies 2023
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
