I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Coverage-Dependent Behaviors of Vanadium Oxides for Chemical Looping Oxidative Dehydrogenation
Graphical Abstract
The loadingreaction-barrier relationship over VOx/TiO2 catalysts is investigated for chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Sub-monolayer or monolayer vanadia nanostructures, compared with conventional crystalline V2O5 oxygen carriers, dramatically suppress the CO2 co-production by evading O2 bulk diffusion and subsequent evolution into surface electrophilic oxygen species.
Abstract
Chemical looping provides an energy- and cost-effective route for alkane utilization. However, there is considerable CO2 co-production caused by kinetically mismatched O2 bulk diffusion and surface reaction in current chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation systems, rendering a decreased olefin productivity. Sub-monolayer or monolayer vanadia nanostructures are successfully constructed to suppress CO2 production in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by evading the interference of O2 bulk diffusion (monolayer versus multi-layers). The highly dispersed vanadia nanostructures on titanium dioxide support showed over 90% propylene selectivity at 500C, exhibiting turnover frequency of 1.9×102s1, which is over 20 times greater than that of conventional crystalline V2O5. Combining insitu spectroscopic characterizations and DFT calculations, we reveal the loadingreaction barrier relationship through the vanadia/titanium interfacial interaction.
Introduction
Propylene is one of the most important feedstocks in the chemical industry.1 As the demand for propylene is growing, there exists an imbalance of propylene supply from steam cracking relative to demand, which is made up by on-purpose propylene production from propane dehydrogenation.2 Despite non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) being the commercial technology, the process is either limited to strong endothermic feature,2b, 3 and using highly expensive platinum or toxic chromium catalysts.4 Comparatively, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by metal oxo species could break the thermodynamic equilibrium limitation in PDH reactions.3, 5 However, it remains an unsolved catalysis problem,4b, 6 as it typically involves consecutive overoxidation or explosion concerns that are not suitable for industrialization.7
Alternatively, chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation (CL-ODH) overcomes the above-mentioned shortcomings.8 A typical CL-ODH process involves dehydrogenation and regeneration reactions taking place in a reducer (or dehydrogenation reactor) and a regeneration reactor,9 shown in Scheme1A. In the reducer, the propane feedstock is oxidized by the lattice oxygen from metal oxides. The (partially) reduced oxide is subsequently regenerated with air in the regeneration reactor, regaining its lattice oxygen while producing heat. The core of CL-ODH using propane as the feedstock involves complex redox reactions in which propane molecules adsorb and dissociate on the surface of metal oxides, namely oxygen carriers.10 It also involves internal lattice oxygen ion (O2) diffusion in conventional crystalline oxygen carriers, which could evolve into electrophilic oxygen species on the surface, leading to CO2 co-production.8b, 9a In a previous study, we have demonstrated that the diffusion of O2 significantly influences the surface reaction kinetics.8a Increasing the binding energy of VO bonds to inhibit the lattice oxygen diffusion is critical to enhance the propylene selectivity. However, due to the various VO species and uneven oxygen diffusion rates in different vanadia crystalline phases (such as V2O5, VO2, V2O3), it is difficult to maintain high propylene selectivity during the overall dehydrogenation reaction.
Scheme 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. A)The reducer and regeneration reactor in the chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation process. B)Structure and products in sub-monolayer and monolayer VOx vs. conventional crystalline V2O5 oxygen carrier. C)Cyclogram of dehydrogenation and regeneration steps.
Considering the unique properties of VOx/MO systems consisting of isolated and/or polymeric nanostructures that wet the supporting MO, we can promote the surface reaction by eliminating the aftermath of O2 bulk diffusion (monolayer versus multilayers) for vanadium oxide based oxygen carriers.11 It has been evidenced that the dehydrogenation properties significantly depend on their surface density and VO bond types.8a, 12 Wachs and co-workers mentioned that in gaseous O2 involved selective oxidation reactions, the VOsupport bonds (neither VOV nor the terminal V=O bonds) appeared to be critical active sites for the reactivity of the supported vanadia species.13 However, it still remains unclear of the relationship between VOx structures and reaction properties over oxygen carrier systems in chemical looping reactions, due to their structural complexity and diversity of oxygen species.14
We report an approach to engineering metal oxide-based oxygen carriers for chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation by designing and synthesizing sub-monolayer or monolayer vanadia nanostructures on oxide supports. Titanium oxide was chosen as the support to disperse VOx and easily identify the different VO species. A schematic of our material platform in the cycled propane dehydrogenation is outlined in Scheme1B,C. We experimentally achieve a high propylene selectivity >90%, which is higher than that over conventional crystalline V2O5 oxygen carriers. We also find that the turnover frequency (TOF) decreases with the increasing of V loadings. These findings underscore the strong coverage-dependent effects through the vanadia/titanium interfacial interaction. This work will have broader impacts not only on vanadium-based oxygen carriers for oxidative dehydrogenation, but also on other oxygen carriers for chemical looping applications such as carbonaceous fuel conversion and utilization.
Results and Discussion
VOx supported on TiO2 were prepared by the wetness impregnation method, and the loading amount of V was controlled ranging from 0.05 to 4wt%, named as xV/TiO2, where x is mass weight percent of metal V on TiO2. Considering propane dehydrogenation at the high temperatures (>500C), rutile is more thermodynamically stable. The V-catalyzed transformation of anatase to rutile could also occur at high temperatures. In addition, rutile predominates in single crystal model systems and theoretical simulation due to the higher availability of suitable substrates.15 Such model systems have been used to study the effects of oxidation and reduction on the structure of VOx supported on rutile (110). Therefore, rutile was selected as the supports in this study.
XRD patterns of different VOx/TiO2 catalysts were measured and shown in the Supporting Information, FigureS1. One can see only the characteristic peaks of crystalline TiO2 (rutile) (PDF No. 21-1276), among which the diffraction peak of (110) exhibits the strongest intensity. No characteristic peaks of V2O5 were observed in the samples with V loadings less than 2wt%, suggesting that the vanadia species are highly dispersed on TiO2 supports.16 Beyond this value, the characteristic peaks attributed to orthorhombic V2O5 crystallite (PDF No. 41-1426) appear (Supporting Information, FigureS1B). The BET surface areas of TiO2 supports are about 21m2, therefore the V density of 1V/TiO2 was determined to be 0.89mmolV per 100m2 of titanium oxide (namely, 0.081wt% vanadium oxide per m2 of titanium oxide), which is close to the previous reported theoretical monolayer (a value of 0.1wt% vanadium oxide per m2 of titanium oxide surface area).17 So we suggest that the VOx with 1wt% V loadings completely encapsulate the TiO2 substrate and reach to the monolayer dispersion capacity. TEM and HRTEM images showed that the particle size of TiO2 supports is about 50nm with a d-spacing of 0.325nm, which is ascribed to TiO2(110) (Supporting Information, FigureS1C,D). For VOx/TiO2 catalysts, on the surface of TiO2, amorphous VOx species formed (encircled by the white dashed line; Figure1AC). Specifically, the mean thickness of amorphous VOx layer was identified as 0.8nm over 1V/TiO2 (Figure1B). By HRTEM analysis, the facets of (110), (001) and (101) were identified to crystalline TiO2 (rutile) (Figure1DF). EDS mappings show that VOx are homogenously covering the surface of TiO2 (Figure1GI). When V loading reaches to 4wt%, small V2O5 nanoparticles of about 3nm are deposited on TiO2 (Figure1C), indicating formation of crystalline V2O5 with d-spacing of (001) (inset in Figure1F).18 In contrast, when the loading of V is 0.1wt%, with the absence of continuous amorphous layers and crystalline particles, some discrete layers appeared, suggesting the supported VOx were in forms of isolated or deposited into defects of TiO2.18 Therefore, different V coverage induce various VOx structures, such as isolated or polyvanadate VOx and crystalline V2O5.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
TEM and HRTEM images of A) and D)0.1V/TiO2, B)and E)1V/TiO2, C) and F)4V/TiO2. EDS mappings of 1V/TiO2 G: Ti; H: V; I: O. Scale bar: 5nm.
To discuss the interaction between the dispersed VOx and TiO2 support, the surface structure of TiO2 supports as one of the key factors should be considered. As suggested by the incorporation model, the dispersed metal oxide cations might incorporate into the defective sites available on the surface of the support with the accompanied anion as capping anions for charge compensation.19 Considering the impurities and contaminations, the VOx/TiO2 catalysts are calcined in air at 500C before the XPS characterization. The calculated ratios of OII/OI (OI: lattice oxygen, OII: adsorbed OH in water at oxygen defects) ascribed from XPS of O1s gradually decreased with the increasing of V loadings (Supporting Information, FigureS3A,B), suggesting the VOx species might be incorporated into the defective sites of TiO2 support and induced the decreasing of defective sites. However, further increasing V loadings leads to the increasing ratios of OII/OI owing to the formation of small and defective V2O5 nanoparticles (<3nm). The turning point with the V loadings at about 1wt% is consistent with the monolayer VOx (dispersion capacity) mentioned above. Therefore, the schematic diagram for the dispersion of vanadia species on the TiO2 surface was showed in the Supporting Information, FigureS3D. When the loading of V is very low, VOx species were mainly located on the defective sites of TiO2 surface. With the increasing of V loadings, the isolated and polymerized VOx species were gradually formed. However, more V loadings would contribute to the formation of disordered VOx layers and crystalline V2O5 on TiO2 support.
To reveal the configuration of various VOx species on TiO2, Raman spectroscopies were further employed. Figure2 shows the visible (532nm; (Figure2A) and UV (325nm; Figure2B) Raman spectra of the mixed VOx/TiO2 catalysts with different V loadings. The Raman peaks at 143, 238, 445, and 609cm1 are assigned to B1g (two-phonon scattering process), Eg (planar OO interaction), and A1g (TiO stretch) of rutile TiO2, respectively.16, 20 At the low loadings of V less than 0.25wt%, the main feature of the isolated VOx is the existence of V=O stretching (1024cm1) and VOTi bridging bonds (800cm1),14e indicating the formation of isolated VOx.21 With the increasing of V loadings to 1wt%, the bonds of VOV (920cm1) appeared and gradually dominated compared with VOTi bonds. The fact of more dominated VOV bonds indicated that the polymeric (bonding also to neighboring V) species were present.22 When the loadings of V were higher than 1wt%, a new band at 994cm1 corresponding to V=O stretching in V2O5 crystallites appeared on 2wt% VOx/TiO2 and 4wt% VOx/TiO2 samples.18, 23 Furthermore, it should be noted that as the loading of VOx was further increased, the Eg peak of TiO2 shifted to lower wavenumbers maybe due to the lattice distortion of TiO2 at the high loading of VOx.24 The relative amount of these two bridging bonds in the catalysts is closely related to the V loadings, where higher V loadings contribute to more dominated VOV bonds than VOTi bonds. Consequently, the intensity ratio of VOV to VOTi bonds (IV-O-V/IV-O-Ti) increased linearly with the increasing of V loadings but at different rates before and after its dispersion capacity (Figure2C). The two straight lines come across at the V loading of 0.98wt%, which is close to the dispersion capacity measured above (1wt%). In other words, the ratios of VOV to VOTi bonds as well as the relative amount of the polymerized to isolated vanadia species increased accordingly. Therefore, with the increasing of V loadings, the surface around isolated VOx species are occupied gradually, resulting in the interaction between isolated species and their nearest neighbors (either isolated or polymerized vanadia species) through bridging VOV at the expenses of VOTi bonds. A representation of various VOx species formed on the surface of TiO2 was showed in Figure2D.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
A)Visible (532nm) and B)UV (325nm) Raman spectra of VOx/TiO2 with different V loadings. C)The calculated IV-O-V/IV-O-Ti as a function of V loadings. D)Representation of various VOx species formed on the surface of TiO2.
The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane was further tested. To eliminate the disturbance of direct propane dehydrogenation under high temperature, the reaction performance was tested under 500C. At the 5th minute during the initial reaction period, as shown in Figure3A, the instantaneous propane conversion increases with the increasing of V loadings. While the selectivity of propylene is relatively low of about 80% over crystalline V2O5 (4V/TiO2). Comparatively, highly dispersed VOx/TiO2 with the loadings from 0.05 to 1wt% show much better catalytic performance, where 0.1V/TiO2 possesses the highest selectivity of propylene (ca. 95%; Figure3B). Apart from C3H6 and COx, CH4, C2H6 and C2H4 are the main other products (Supporting Information, FigureS4). Compared with conventional ODH4a, 25 catalysts (Supporting Information, FigureS5), the VOx/TiO2 catalysts showed very high selectivity of propylene in the chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation at a comparable conversion of propane. Moreover, to demonstrate the importance of the kinds of VOx species on propylene selectivity, we detected the reaction performance at the close degree of propane conversion of about 10% over different VOx/TiO2 catalysts. As shown in the Supporting Information, FigureS6, with the increasing of V loadings, the instantaneous selectivity of propylene is gradually decreased, further indicating that the highly dispersed vanadia supported on TiO2 are the main active species, which are responsible for selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
A)The instantaneous conversion and B)selectivity as a function of V loadings over VOx/TiO2 in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. C)The TOF of VOx/TiO2 as a function of V loadings. Catalytic test conditions: 500C, 1.4atmospheric pressure, GHSV=2500h1, 250mg of sample, C3H8 with balance N2 for total flow rate of 21mLmin1, reaction data at the 5th minute in the initial oxidative dehydrogenation period.
During the overall dehydrogenation step, about 89% integral selectivity of C3H6 was achieved over 1V/TiO2 (Supporting Information, FigureS7B) at the 5th minute according to the Equation(2d) in Supporting Information, which is slightly lower than the instantaneous value (92%) owing to the formation of COx in the initial dehydrogenation period (Supporting Information, FigureS7A). Furthermore, considering the formation of coking, the propylene selectivity (including coking formation) was evaluated from the atomic C balance according to the Equation(2b) (Supporting Information, FigureS8). Because of lattice oxygen involvement and relatively low reaction temperature (500C), at which the coking formation is limited and the calculated carbon balance is determined to be about 98% (Supporting Information, FigureS4), indicating the coke formation over VOx/TiO2 catalysts is very weak. Moreover, no matter of O2-TPO profiles (Supporting Information, FigureS9) or Raman spectra (Supporting Information, FigureS10) of the spent VOx/TiO2 also showed little amount of coke formation occurred in the dehydrogenation step.
A redox test was then conducted over 1V/TiO2 to recover the crystalline structures and combust the coking. Few changes of product compositions at the 5th minute in the dehydrogenation step were observed during the 10 redox cycles (Supporting Information, FigureS11), indicating that a stable CL-ODH performance was achieved. Furthermore, we find that after 1 and 10 redox cycles, no matter of the morphology (Supporting Information, FiguresS12, S13) or the crystalline structure (Supporting Information, FigureS14) can maintained unchanged. Moreover, the pore structures and BET surface areas of 1V/TiO2 after 10 redox cycles showed no significant changes compared with the fresh samples (Supporting Information, FigureS15 and TableS2). All the results imply the superior regenerability of this VOx/TiO2 catalyst.
To gain deeper insights into the influence of the dispersion state of vanadia species on the intrinsic reaction reactivity, the turnover frequency (TOF) of VOx/TiO2 catalysts are calculated. It is important to stress that the TOF and propane conversion rates were tested under a special condition, which was determined to eliminate the mass transfer and the conversion below 15% to ensure differential reaction. TOF was calculated based on the total number of V atom from Equation(3) in the Supporting Information. As VOx could be well dispersed on TiO2 as a sub-monolayer and monolayer, TOF based on the number of V atom will be same as TOF based on active sites. Nevertheless, for the catalysts with crystalline V2O5, the calculated TOF could be slightly smaller than the actual TOF based on the active sites. This calculation method has been widely applied in many other works.11, 18, 26 As shown in Figure3C, the TOF values gradually decrease with the increasing of V loadings. The highest TOF value of 1.9×102s1 is observed at 0.1V/TiO2, namely the isolated VOx supported on TiO2, which are at a similar level with respect to the VOx-based catalysts.11 Comparatively, crystalline V2O5 (4V/TiO2) showed much lower activity for propylene production. Therefore, it seems reasonable to consider that the sub-monolayer and monolayer VOx exhibit higher activity than conventional crystalline V2O5 oxygen carriers for propylene production.
To reveal the relationships between V loadings and dehydrogenation reactivity, temperature programmed reduction (TPR) of a series of VOx/TiO2 samples with different V loadings were further performed. As shown by H2-TPR profiles (Figure4A), tiny H2 consumption has been observed for pure TiO2 under 700C. Compared with TiO2 supports, the main feature of the TPR profiles over VOx/TiO2 samples is the obvious shift of their reduction peaks to a lower temperature region, revealing the fact that, comparatively, the supported vanadia species are easier to be reduced. Noteworthy, when V2O5 loading exceeds its dispersion capacity, the H2 consumption peak shifts to apparently higher temperatures with the increase of loading. In other words, the vanadia species associated with the TiO2 supports are more active. These results suggest that the lattice oxygen in VOx/TiO2 catalyst might be the main active species in ODH reactions, of which the reactivity decrease with the increasing of V loadings. Furthermore, the H2 consumption amount of each vanadium ion was shown in Figure4B, which decreased rapidly with the increasing of V loadings and then reached to a rather flat line. Interestingly, the inflexion point curve was also positioned around the dispersion capacity of VOx (1wt%) on TiO2. The result was consistent with the argument that with the increasing of the V loadings, the isolated VOx species in the samples tend to interact with their nearest neighbors through bridging VOV at the expenses of VOTi bonds resulting in the decrease of the reactivity of the associated oxygen anions. With further increase of V loadings, V2O5 crystallites formed, in which the oxygen anions associated with VOV bonds are less reactive and only partially exposed on the surface.
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
A)H2-TPR profiles of VOx/TiO2 catalysts with different V loadings. B)The calculated H2 consumption of H2V1 from H2-TPR profiles of VOx/TiO2 catalysts with different V loadings. C)O2-TPD profiles of VOx/TiO2 catalysts with different V loadings. D)C3H6 signals and E)CO2 signals of C3H8-TPSR mass spectra over 0.1V/TiO2 catalyst and 4V/TiO2 catalyst. F)The TOF values and IV-O-V/IV-O-Ti obtained from Raman spectra as a function of H2 consumption obtained from H2-TPR profiles.
O2-TPD was also performed to characterize relative amounts of surface chemisorbed and bulk lattice oxygen species. For three samples (Figure4C), there is a significant peak at about 200C, which can be assigned to chemisorbed α-oxygen peak of electrophilic oxygen on the surface and nonselective for propylene production. The peak shifting to lower temperatures with increase of V loadings explains its decreasing C3H6 selectivity toward complete oxidation, which corresponds to XPS data that amount of electrophilic surface oxygen species increase when the V loading exceeds the monolayer capacity. Additionally, it should be noted that there is a significant peak of bulk lattice oxygen at about 650C over 4V/TiO2. During the propane dehydrogenation reactions under high temperature, outward diffusion of bulk O2 could evolve into surface electrophilic oxygen species, leading to the overoxidation of pre-produced propenyl species and decreasing propylene production.9a
To further evaluate intrinsic activity of CH activation, propane temperature-programmed surface reaction (C3H8-TPSR) experiments were operated (Supporting Information, FigureS16). The temperature where C3H6 signal begins to emerge is determined as the C3H6 production temperature. As shown in Figure4D, C3H6 starts to appear over 0.1V/TiO2 at temperature down to 207C, lower than that over 4V/TiO2 at 253C, demonstrating higher oxygen reactivity for propylene production of isolated VOx compared with crystalline V2O5. Furthermore, the co-production of CO2 (Figure4E) over 4V/TiO2 is significantly higher than that over 0.1V/TiO2, which states the suppressed propylene selectivity and significant CO2 co-production over crystalline V2O5.
It has been elucidated that sub-monolayer and monolayer VOx/TiO2 showed higher oxygen reactivity for propylene production than crystalline V2O5 oxygen carriers. However, the detailed analysis over VO bond evolution and surface reaction mechanism has not been well achieved. Insitu Raman and DRIFTS, which are more sensitive to surface VOx structure,27 were further performed to monitor the evolution of VO bonds and reaction intermediates. As shown in Figure5A, insitu Raman spectra over 1V/TiO2 indicated that the V=O and VOTi species are very reactive and it could be consumed at about 200C. By comparison, the mode of VOV stretching was relatively stabilized and gradually reduced above 200C. This demonstrated that the oxygen anions associated with the bridging VOTi bonds are more active than those with VOV bonds as mentioned before. In terms of surface reaction, insitu DRIFTS showed that C3H8 adsorption occurs in forms of CH distortion. Then propyl complex is oxidatively dehydrogenated to C3H6 (ν(C=C), 1645cm1) by subtracting H to oxygen sites, presenting a positive hydroxy band (VOH, 3650cm1) and a negative V=O band (2050cm1) over 1V/TiO2 (Figure5B).28 Comparatively, A significant additional band of acetone (νs(C=O), 1660cm1), an important intermediate of overoxidation to COx, emerges and band of ν(C=C) gradually submerges over 4V/TiO2 over 350C (Figure5C). Considering the O2 diffusion from bulk at high temperatures over crystalline V2O5, the O2 species could evolve into surface electrophilic oxygen species, leading to the overoxidation of pre-produced propenyl species (emerged νs(C=O) vs. submerged ν(C=C)) and thus CO2 co-production.
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
A)Insitu Raman spectra over 1V/TiO2 catalysts under propane dehydrogenation step ranging from 50C to 550C. B)In situ DRIFTs over 1V/TiO2 catalysts under propane dehydrogenation step from 50C to 500C. C)Insitu DRIFTs over 4V/TiO2 catalysts under propane dehydrogenation step from 50C to 500C.
Apparently, the structure and bonding environment of the supported vanadia species have strong impacts on the reactivity of the associated oxygen anions and hence the catalytic reactivity for propylene production, that is, the oxygen anions associated with the bridging VOTi bonds are more active than those with VOV bonds. The relative amount of these two bridging bonds in the catalysts is closely related to the V loadings, where higher V loadings contribute to more dominated VOV bonds than VOTi bonds. Taking the fact into consideration that increasing V loading leads to the decreasing of TOF values and reducibility of the supported vanadia species (as shown by TPR results above), it is suggested that for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, the oxygen anions associated with VOTi bonds are more reactive compared with those associated with VOV bonds. Correlating the ratios of H2/V with TOF and IV-O-V/IV-O-Ti obtained from Raman spectra, we found the linear relationships between them (Figure4F), which revealed that the vanadia coverage determined the reaction properties over VOx/TiO2 catalysts for ODH reactions. Specifically, with the increasing of V loadings, the decreasing ratios of VOTi to VOV bonds result in the decreasing reactivity of associated oxygen anions and hence the decreasing TOF values. When the loading amount of V is higher than its dispersion capacity, the propylene selectivity decreases more rapidly with the increase of V loading due to the formation of V2O5 crystallites in which the bulk O2 could diffuse and evolve into surface electrophilic oxygen species, leading to the overoxidation of pre-produced propenyl species and co-production of CO2.
To reveal the loading-reaction relationship through the vanadia/titanium interfaces, DFT calculations were further employed. The slab model of TiO2(110) were selected and simulated by a three-layer (4×2) surface unit cell considering the (110) plane exhibits the greatest thermal stability. For rutile TiO2(110) and VxOy supported on TiO2(110), a 2×2×1 k-points grid was chosen. As shown in the Supporting Information, FigureS18, the structure has become more stable with the increase of the V coverage, corresponding to the increase of V loadings. As has been studied, the local bonding ability of the lattice oxygen atoms can be measured using an H atom as the probe.12 Therefore, the adsorption energy of the H atom was detected to estimate the oxygen reactivity and ability to activate the CH bond of the established models with various V loadings over VOx/TiO2 catalysts. At the low loading (VO3/TiO2) of isolated VOx/TiO2, the interfacial VOTi site shows the strongest adsorption of H atoms, and increasing V loading weakens its adsorption due to the more increasing sites of VOV bonds than VOTi bonds (Figure6A; Supporting Information, FigureS19). Noticeably, the calculated H adsorption energy with various V coverage showed a very similar trend of experimental TOF values as a function of VOx density on TiO2 supports in Figure4C. Additionally, the trend of oxygen vacancy (OV) formation energy is consistent with the trend of H adsorption energy and VO3/TiO2 shows the most negative H adsorption energy and lowest OV formation energy, which further indicates the isolated VOx may feature the highest lattice oxygen activity (Supporting Information, TableS3). It is worth mentioning that the reaction network used in Figure6 is the same for PDH or ODH process when evaluating the thermodynamics and kinetics of propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The calculated potential energy diagrams confirm that a facile dehydrogenation process can occur over VO3/TiO2 whose barrier of the first CH bond activation is much lower (ca. 0.2eV) and the second CH bond cleavage barrier is merely a little bit higher (increased by about 0.3eV) due to the strong adsorption of C3H7* on the surface oxygen (Figure6B). With increase of V loadings, the activation barrier rises due to the formation of VOV sites, whose dehydrogenation barrier is comparable to crystalline V2O5(001).
Figure 6
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
A)H adsorption energy on different VO sites of VO3/TiO2, V2O5/TiO2, V3O6, V4O8, 1monolayer VOx/TiO2 and crystalline V2O5(001). B)Calculated potential energy diagrams of VO3/TiO2, V2O5/TiO2 and crystalline V2O5(001).
To gain an insightful comprehension of these variable performances, electron transfer of the model catalysts was analyzed. At the highly dispersed VOx/TiO2, VOx transfers electrons to TiO2 via interfacial VOTi bonds with increasing of VOx loadings (Supporting Information, FiguresS17, S20), resulting in the promoted oxygen reactivity. It further revealed the existence of loading-reaction barrier relationship through the vanadium-titanium interface. Additionally, the p-band center of surface oxygen (V=O and VOTi) over monomeric vanadium oxide (VO3/TiO2) are higher than other structures indicating the good electrons affinity which brings about the extraordinary CH bond rupture ability (Supporting Information, TableS4).
Conclusion
In the present study, we investigated the structure and catalytic performance of sub-monolayer and monolayer VOx deposited on TiO2 support and conventional crystalline V2O5 oxygen carriers. By conducting catalytic studies, spectroscopic characterizations and theoretical simulations, we found that the oxygen reactivity was dependent on the dispersion states of VOx on TiO2. With the increasing of V loadings, the isolated vanadia species formed and then interacted with their nearest neighbors (either isolated or polymerized vanadia) through bridging VOV at the expenses of VOTi bonds, resulting in decreasing reactivity of the associated surface oxygen anions. Consequently, although the activity increases with the increasing of V loadings, the propylene TOF of the VOx/TiO2 catalyst decreases linearly. Especially, the isolated VOx exhibited highest turnover frequency of 1.9×102s1, which is over 20 times greater than that of conventional crystalline V2O5 oxygen carriers, where O2 diffusion from bulk and its subsequent evolution into electrophilic oxygen species on the surface suppress the propylene production. The established loading-reaction barrier relationship clearly illustrates the loading effect on the catalytic performance of oxygen carrier systems. Importantly, considering the limited surface area of TiO2 in our model catalysts, the large surface area supports are supposed to be preferentially needed to obtain the sub-monolayer and monolayer nanostructures for industrial utilization.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 