<DOCUMENT>
Redox MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts for chemical-looping oxidative dehydrogenation of propane: A greener approach of propylene production
A redox catalyst with MoO3 loaded on CaMnO3 perovskite was evaluated for chemical-looping oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane to produce propylene. This approach requires less energy for the production per unit of propylene with minimum CO2 emission, which is highly desirable from an environmental perspective. H2-TPR indicates that the incorporation of MoO3 minimizes the release of surface oxygen, which is favorable for high propylene selectivity. XRD reveals the presence of active sites, while scanning SEM-EDX show uniform dispersion of deposited MoO3 on CaMnO3. XPS analysis demonstrates that MoO3 addition promotes the formation of lattice oxygen which improves the propylene selectivity. The highest propylene yield of 30.6% with a propylene selectivity of 59% was achieved at 550 ℃ with 10% MoO3/CaMnO3. The catalysts also show stable activity in successive redox cycles. The addition of MoO3 enhances propylene yield and selectivity, due to free lattice oxygen, as revealed by XPS and H2-TPR.
1. Introduction
Light olefins including butadiene, propylene, and ethylene are important feedstock for the petrochemical industry [1], [2]. They are used as starting materials for the production of a wide range of chemicals and valuable products such as butadiene rubber, polypropylene, polyethylene and propylene oxide, acrylonitrile, and cumin [3], [4]. Approximately 70% of the global supplies of olefins are obtained from the steam cracking of naphtha, LPG (liquefied petroleum gas), and refinery gases. Fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) of vacuum gas oil is one of the major sources of light olefins. In FCC, the main product is gasoline, while propylene and ethylene are byproducts, which account for about 5% and 2% of the total products, respectively. Direct dehydrogenation of paraffins is also used to meet the global olefins demand. Despite their technical maturity, the current olefin production technologies are considered as the most energy intensive processes due to the highly endothermic nature of the reactions involved and the low product selectivity. These processes are increasingly undesirable from an environmental standpoint due to their high energy intensity combined with the high CO2 emission (∼ 2 tons CO2/ton propylene). Thermodynamic constraints and deactivation of catalysts by coke formation are the other problems associated with the current olefin production processes. Light olefins can also be produced using various on-purpose technologies, which include oxidative dehydrogenation of light paraffins, coupling of methane, and conversion of syngas to olefins [5], [6]. Among these alternatives, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of short-chain alkanes to olefins is more promising due to its thermal advantages [7]. Dehydrogenation of alkanes to olefins is endothermic (Eq. 1), while the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes to olefins is exothermic (Eq. 2) [8], [9].
(1)
C3H8 → C3H6 + H2 (ΔH0reaction = 124·0 KJ/mol)
(2)
C3H8 + ½ O2 → C3H6 + H2O (ΔH0reaction = −117·6 KJ/mol)
A high temperature is required to achieve an appreciable conversion of alkanes through dehydrogenation (Eq. 1). Low temperatures favor the reverse reaction over the forward reaction due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. A high pressure also shifts the equilibrium in the reverse direction as the number of moles in the product side is higher. In contrast, the introduction of oxygen into the system overcomes these thermodynamic limitations by oxidative dehydrogenation, yielding olefins and steam (Eq. 2). A high conversion of alkanes can be achieved at lower reaction temperatures due to the exothermic nature of the ODH reaction [10]. Thus, ODH offers a major avenue to eliminate the existing challenges, such as low olefin selectivity, high reaction temperature, and reaction equilibrium limitations, associated with conventional technologies [11].
Despite these advantages, there are some challenges to be overcome for large-scale application of the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to produce propylene. The availability of oxygen in the system also contributes to the complete combustion of the propane/propylene yielding undesirable COx. Other challenges in industrial scale application of ODH include: (i) the removal of heat generated from the exothermic reaction, (ii) the control of a potential runaway reaction and explosions, and (iii) the possibility of a decrease in propylene selectivity due to successive oxidation reactions [12]. Investigations have been conducted to address these challenges in commercial scale application of ODH processes. Development of selective catalysts that can control the complete oxidation of hydrocarbons and the use of CO2 as a soft oxidant instead of oxygen, are some of the approaches suggested in published studies [13]. In addition, olefin production via ODH of light alkanes can largely be enhanced by implementing energy efficient reactor configurations. In this regard, the use of a fluidized bed chemical-looping configuration shown in Fig. 1 presents advantages over the traditional reactor system.
Download : Download high-res image (111KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of chemical-looping oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene.
This configuration has the following advantages: (i) eliminates hot spots in the catalyst bed preventing the loss of product selectivity and catalyst deactivation, (ii) enhances mass transfer between the gas phase reactant and the catalyst [14], and (iii) allows catalyst regeneration by circulating the catalysts through the catalyst regenerator. The chemical-looping configuration shown in Fig. 1 can also be used to implement ODH without the use of gas phase oxygen, where the required oxygen is supplied by the lattice oxygen present in the solid catalysts. Main advantage of using lattice oxygen in the catalyst is the prevention of complete combustion of hydrocarbons, which enhances olefin selectivity. Occurrence of a runway reaction can also be prevented by adjusting the oxygen concentration in the catalyst. In this approach, propane to propylene conversion takes place in the ODH reactor, while the oxygen depleted catalyst can be re-oxidized in the regenerator and recycled back to the ODH reactor. This novel reactor configuration is very promising for the commercial scale application of the ODH process. As the catalyst must be highly stable to withstand repeated redox cycling, development of a fluidizable catalyst for this circulating fluidized bed system remains a challenge.
Ideal catalyst should have the following characteristics: (i) a balanced acidity to activate hydrocarbons; (ii) the ability of the lattice oxygen to activate the C−H bonds of propane, allowing it to react with hydrogen; (iii) the reduced catalyst is readily re-oxidized in the presence of air; (iv) remains active over repeated cycles; (v) environmentally benign; and (vi) economically feasible. Generally, the C−C bonds in paraffins and olefins are less reactive than the C−H bonds. An appropriate catalyst for the dehydrogenation of alkanes should be one that preferentially breaks the C−H bonds instead of the C−C bonds, avoiding undesirable reactions [15]. Supported transitional metal oxides of vanadium [16], [17], molybdenum [3], [18], and chromium [19], [20] have been investigated as potential catalysts for the ODH of propane to propylene. ODH reaction using lattice oxygen of the catalysts follows the Mars-van-Krevelen redox mechanism, which requires the catalyst to have balanced redox properties [21]. Several other transition metals, such as Ni, Co, and Pt, are suitable for the conversion of alkanes to olefins. However, unlike the molybdenum oxide catalyst, these catalysts can activate the C−C bond to form undesirable COx products. Molybdenum oxide catalysts are widely used for the selective oxidation of alkanes, due to their high olefin selectivity. As lattice oxygen promotes the activation of the C−H bonds in the conversion of light alkanes to olefins by the redox mechanism, MoO3 is an attractive candidate among the available catalysts [22]. Studies by Kaidong et al. [23] show that there is a correlation between terminal M=O bond strength and the ability of MoO3 to activate C−H bonds of alkanes. Thus, one can hypothesize that strongly bound lattice oxygen is less effective in extracting hydrogen from the C−H bonds of alkanes compared to weakly bound lattice oxygen.
The type of support material and its interaction with the active metal oxide have a significant influence on the performance of ODH catalysts. The support materials commonly used in published studies are γAl2O3, ZrO2, TiO2, SiO2, and perovskite oxides [9], [24], [25], [26]. Perovskite type materials are suitable catalyst ingredients for the ODH process due to their promising reactivity and redox properties in chemical-looping combustion applications [27], [28]. Furthermore, owing to their favorable structural properties, such as excellent thermal stability, perovskite oxides can be used in a range of applications involving liquid, gas, or solid phase reactions at high or low temperatures [29]. However, oxidation characteristics of such materials must be controlled to prevent complete oxidation of alkanes in ODH applications. Mixed oxides of manganese and calcium have gained much attention recently, due to their low cost, environmental friendliness, ready availability, and acceptable catalytic performance. Perovskite material CaMnO3 functions as a redox catalyst and has shown promising olefin selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation processes [26], [30]. However, this catalyst has not been investigated in the gas phase under an oxygen-free environment.
Taking advantage of the promising characteristics of CaMnO3, the combined effects of MoO3 and CaMnO3 in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane in the gas phase under oxygen-free conditions were investigated in the present study. The catalytic activity of CaMnO3 for propane ODH with significant yield and selectivity of propylene demonstrate the novel contribution of the this research in the existing literature on propane ODH. The addition of MoO3 is expected to enhance the activity of the CaMnO3 perovskite catalysts, given that Mo5+ ions act as active sites in the ODH of alkane. The physicochemical characteristics of the oxide catalysts are also likely to be influenced by the presence of MoO3. The catalyst preparation approach used in this study is expected to determine both the type and the fraction of the oxide phases, the reducibility as well as the overall performance of the catalyst. Experimental runs were conducted in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator reactor to establish the effectiveness of the proposed MoO3/CaMnO3 perovskite catalyst. The results of this study demonstrate that a high propane conversion and a good selectivity for propylene can be achieved using the synthesized MoO3/CaMnO3 perovskite catalyst under fluidized conditions employed.
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalyst preparation
In this investigation, the CaMnO3 perovskite sample was synthesized using the modified sol-gel (Pechini method) method described by Shafiefarhood et al. and others [26], [31]. The MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts were prepared by loading MoO3 on CaMnO3 using the incipient wetness impregnation technique.
For CaMnO3 preparation, stoichiometric amounts of Mn(NO3)20.4 H2O and Ca(NO3)20.4 H2O were dissolved in 20 mL of deionized water. The mixture was stirred continuously at 30 ℃ until the precursors were completely dissolved and a citric acid solution at a mole ratio of 5:1 with respect to the metal ions in solution (either Mn2+ or Ca2+) was added. The mixture was constantly stirred at 40 ℃ and ethylene glycol was added (at a mole ratio of 1.5:1 with respect to the metal ions) to facilitate gel formation. The temperature of the mixture was then raised to 90 ℃ with continuous stirring until a gel was formed. The mixture with the gel was placed in an oven at 100 ℃ for 24 h to form a viscous material, which was subsequently dried at 120 ℃. The dried sample was calcined at about 500 ℃ in a muffle furnace forming a black resin-like substance. Finally, the sample was further calcined in a tubular furnace at about 1000 ℃ to obtain the crystalline form of the CaMnO3 perovskite.
Three samples of the MoO3/CaMnO3 perovskite catalyst were prepared by loading 3 wt%, 5 wt%, and 10 wt% of molybdenum on CaMnO3 using the incipient wetness impregnation technique. Calculated amounts of the molybdenum precursor, ammonium molybdate tetrahydrate ((NH4)6Mo7O24·4 H2O), was added to a volume of deionized water equivalent to the total pore volume of the catalyst support and stirred until dissolution [3]. Previously synthesized CaMnO3 was then added to the molybdenum tetrahydrate solution and stirred continuously for about 2 h. The resulting mixture was then dried at 120 ℃ and finally calcined at 750 ℃. The synthesized catalysts were labelled 3%MoO3/CaMnO3, 5%MoO3/CaMnO3, and 10%MoO3/CaMnO3 depending on the molybdenum loading.
2.2. Catalyst characterization
2.2.1. X-ray diffraction (XRD)
XRD patterns of the synthesized catalysts were recorded to identify the crystallographic structure of the phases present. The XRD patterns were recorded using a Rigaku MiniFlex diffractometer equipped with a monochromatic Cu Kα radiation source (wavelength = 0.15406 nm, 10 kV, 50 mA). The diffraction patterns were recorded in the 2θ range of 20–90° with a step size of 0.02° using a normal scan speed of 2°/min. The diffraction peaks were identified by comparing them with those in Joint Committee on Powder Diffraction Standards (JCPDS) files.
2.2.2. SEM imaging and EDX spectroscopy
The surface morphology of the synthesized catalysts, comprising different amounts of MoO3 supported on CaMnO3 were determined using a JEOL scanning electron microscope (SEM). In typical SEM imaging, the catalyst sample is initially dispersed on a stub fastened with copper tape. Prior to imaging, each catalyst sample was coated with 5 nm gold to inhibit charge build-up to improve image contrast and visibility at very high magnification. Energy dispersive spectra (EDX) was performed to determine the elemental distribution on the surface of catalyst samples.
2.2.3. H2 temperature programmed reduction (H2 -TPR)
A Micromeritics AutoChem II 2920 equipment was used to perform the H2 -TPR analyses at atmospheric pressure. The H2 -TPR analyses were conducted to determine the temperature of reduction, evaluate the amount of reducible lattice oxygen available in the catalyst, and establish the MoO3-support interaction. For each analysis, a 0.05 g catalyst sample was loaded into a quartz U-tube and sandwiched between layers of glass wool to hold the catalyst in place during analysis. The sample was initially pretreated with argon at 500 ℃ to eliminate any volatile components that may be present in the sample. Following pretreatment, the catalyst was completely oxidized by flowing a gas mixture containing 5% O2 (balance He) at 500 ℃, reached at a heating rate of 10 ℃/min. The sample was then flushed with argon to remove any unreacted oxygen present in the U-tube. The system was then cooled to room temperature and H2 -TPR analyses were conducted with a gas stream containing 10% H2 (balance argon) passed over the oxidized catalyst at a rate of 50 cm3/min. The temperature of the sample was raised from ambient temperature to 800 ℃ at a heating rate of 10 ℃/min. The H2 concentration in the gas leaving the catalyst chamber was determined using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). The TCD signal was calibrated to report H2 consumption as cm3/g of the catalyst. The results from the analyses are reported as the volume of H2 consumed (cm3/g) versus the reduction temperature, with the total amount of H2 consumed (to reduce the catalyst) being proportional to the area under the TPR curve.
2.2.4. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS)
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was used to determine the surface properties of the freshly prepared MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts with varying MoO3 loadings. XPS provides essential information on binding energy, oxidation state, reducibility of metal oxides, and perovskite materials. The XPS experiments were performed using an ESCALAB 250Xi photoelectron spectrometer microprobe equipped with an Al Kα anode for sample excitation (1 ev = 1.6302 х 10-19 joules and hѵ =1.4866 х 103), a 120 W X-ray source, and a 180° double focusing hemispherical energy analyzer. The C1s, Ca2p, Mn2p, Mo3d, and O1s core levels of the prepared perovskite catalysts were recorded using high-resolution spectra and the data were processed using Avantage software. For consistency, the peak position of the C1 with a binding energy of 284.6 eV was used as a reference for charge shift corrections as it can be assumed that the binding energy of C1 remains constant regardless of the chemical nature of the sample.
2.2.5. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA)
The amount of coke deposited on the catalyst during the catalyst evaluation in the CREC Riser Simulator was analyzed using the SDT Q600 analyzer. This analysis was carried out by loading a maximum of 10 mg of the catalyst into a crucible which is then placed in the furnace. The experiment was performed using zero air at a rate of 95 mL/min by raising the temperature of the furnace from ambient temperature to about 750 ℃ at a ramping rate of 10 ℃/min.
2.3. Chemical-looping oxidative dehydrogenation of propane
Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane in the gas phase under oxygen free conditions (using the lattice oxygen of MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts) was performed in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator. A schematic diagram of the CREC Riser Simulator and the experimental setup are shown in Figs. 2a and 2b, respectively. This laboratory scale unit is designed to mimic various sections of a commercial-scale riser/downer reactor. One major advantage of the CREC Riser Simulator is that it allows the simulation of an entire fluidized bed reactor by varying the reaction time and using a small amount of the catalyst (0.2–1 g). The reactor is constructed with a lower and an upper shell, each fitted with an electrical heater, making the loading and unloading of the catalyst convenient. The catalyst sample is placed in a basket and held in place using two porous Inconel grids at the top and bottom of the basket, which is located in the lower shell, as shown in Fig. 2a. A high-speed impeller located above the basket is used to fluidize the catalyst inside the basket, by simultaneously forcing reactants and product to circulate in and out of the basket for efficient mass transfer. CREC Riser Simulator has attached auxiliary equipment such as: (a) a chromatograph (GC), (b) a vacuum box, (c) a timer, (d) 4PV and 6PV valves, and (e) temperature controllers. These are shown in a schematic diagram of the CREC Riser Simulator in Fig. 2b.
Download : Download high-res image (385KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. (a) Detailed Pictorial View of the Catalyst Basket and Impeller and (b) Schematic Diagram of the Experimental Setup involving the CREC Riser Simulator [12], [32].
In a typical catalytic run, approximately 0.2 g of catalyst was loaded into the catalyst basket and tightly closed to prevent leakage. The temperature of the reactor was then gradually increased to the required reaction temperature. Argon was simultaneously circulated through the system, to ensure that the system was free of air, given that this may influence the reaction. The argon flow was stopped when the desired reactor temperature was reached. At this stage, a vacuum pump (connected to a vacuum box) was turned on to reduce vacuum box pressure to around 20.7 KPa. The impeller was turned on and the feed (C3H8) was injected into the reactor using a special airtight syringe. Pressure changes in the reactor were recorded using a pressure transducer during the reaction. The pressure within the reactor rose as soon as the reaction commenced (Fig. 3) due to the increase in the number of moles of the gases owing to the ODH reaction involving the oxygen from the catalyst. The reaction was terminated automatically as soon as the pre-specified desired reaction time was reached by opening the isolation valve between the reactor and vacuum box. This process transfers all the products/reactants in their gaseous form into the vacuum box, the temperature of which was maintained at approximately 250 ⁰C. The gaseous products in the vacuum box comprising C3H8, C3H6, C2H6, C2H4, CH4, CO2, and CO were analyzed using an online GC (Agilent 7890) equipped with (a) a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and (b) a flame ionizing detector (FID). The propane conversion (
, product selectivity (
and yield
, were determined according to the following equations:
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
where,
and
are the number of atoms of carbon and moles of gaseous carbon in the product j, respectively.
is the moles of unconverted propane in the product stream. nMo is the moles of molybdenum (assuming all Mo is active) and t is the reaction time.
Download : Download high-res image (100KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. The Pressure Profile of the Vacuum Box and the Reactor Section of the CREC Riser Simulator during ODH of Propane to Propylene.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. X-ray diffraction
XRD characterization was conducted to determine the possible crystalline phases present in the catalyst material. Fig. 4 shows the XRD patterns of the CaMnO3 and MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts with different MoO3 loadings. The major diffraction peaks at 2θ of 23.79, 26.64, 33.89, 48.69, 60.67, 71.31, and 81.33° are attributed to an orthorhombic CaMnO3 perovskite structure (JCPDS No. 01–076–8578) with Pnma space group [33], [34]. The absence of extra peaks indicates that the prepared CaMnO3 is of a high purity [35], [36]. The orthorhombic structure is commonly regarded as possessing an octahedral corner-sharing MnO6 framework, with the inter-octahedral sites occupied by Ca ions, which are surrounded by 12 oxygen species of the anions. In the MoO3 containing samples, an additional peak at a 2θ of 29.34° appears, which is attributed to monoclinic MoO3 (JCPDS No. 03–065–7675) with a space group of P21/c (14) [37], [38], [39]. The intensity of this peak increased as the amount of MoO3 increased (3–10 wt%) in the catalyst samples. Diffraction peaks characterizing pure orthorhombic CaMnO3 is present in all the synthesized catalyst samples with MoO3 loaded on the perovskite support. This observation indicates that the introduction of Mo does not significantly affect the crystal structure of the perovskite support, which is also confirmed by the SEM results.
Download : Download high-res image (104KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. XRD profiles of 10% MoO3/CaMnO3, 5% MoO3/CaMnO3, 3%MoO3/CaMnO3, and CaMnO3.
3.2. SEM and EDX characterization
Scanning electron microscopic analysis was performed to determine the morphology of the synthesized CaMnO3 and MoO3 loaded catalyst materials and the results are depicted in Fig. 5. The black powder-like materials prepared using the modified Pechini method are clearly homogenous and spongy, with a very well-ordered porous morphology formed by the aggregation of crystalline grains. The porous nature is a result of the reorganization of the solid particles, which occurs while the volatile materials escape in the calcination stage. Morphology of the CaMnO3 perovskite support remains almost unchanged after impregnation with MoO3. This observation corroborates the results of the XRD analysis, where the presence of MoO3 does not affect the diffraction peaks assigned to the CaMnO3 perovskite. The surface layer of the CaMnO3 perovskite appears to be rough with a granular topography. However, the grain patches on the surface of the CaMnO3 appear to decrease upon impregnation of the support with MoO3.
Download : Download high-res image (643KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. SEM images of (a) CaMnO3, (b) 3% MoO3/CaMnO3, (c) 5% MoO3/CaMnO3, (d) 10% MoO3/CaMnO3, (e) EDX mapping of 5% MoO3/CaMnO3 and (f) 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 showing Mo distribution (g) EDX elemental composition of CaMnO3.
EDX analysis was also conducted to determine the surface elemental composition of the prepared catalysts. The EDX results confirm the presence of Ca, Mn, and O, and also show the uniform distribution of the dopant on the catalyst surface. The intensity of the Mo species increases as the percentage of MoO3 impregnation increases [40].
3.3. H2-TPR characterization
Considering that ODH of propane involves a catalyst which acts as the source of oxygen, in addition to its catalytic role, both the reduction temperature and availability of reducible oxygen in the catalysts are crucial to obtain a significant propane conversion and propylene selectivity. In this regard, H2-TPR analysis is an essential characterization tool to evaluate the oxygen carrying capacity and the redox ability of the synthesized catalysts. Hence, the redox chemistry of CaMnO3 and three MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts were evaluated and the results are depicted in Fig. 6. The deconvoluted TPR profile of pure CaMnO3 perovskite can be divided into four peaks; one minor peak (shoulder) at about 385 ℃ followed by a distinct peak at around 415 ℃ which can be attributed to either the reduction of oxygen formed over the surface of the catalyst and/or oxygen species chemisorbed in the lattice structure [41], [36]. The reduction peaks at around 520 and 555 ℃ are associated with the oxygen vacancy formation and the donation of lattice oxygen as a result of further reduction of Mn cations [36], [42]. Thus, the two observed reduction peaks are assigned to the reduction steps of MnO2 → Mn2O3, and Mn2O3 → Mn3O4, respectively [43]. This indicates that CaMnO3 functions as an efficient heterogeneous solid oxygen carrier, capable of being reduced in the temperature range of interest [36].
Download : Download high-res image (171KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. TPR Profiles of 10% MoO3/CaMnO3, 5% MoO3/CaMnO3, 3%MoO3/CaMnO3, and CaMnO3.
Incorporation of MoO3 on the perovskite support increases the temperature of reduction, while the extent of reducibility is decreased. In addition to the fact that MoO3 species are well dispersed over the support surface as evidenced by SEM-EDX (Fig. 5), TPR profiles demonstrate that the metal-support interaction gets stronger as amount of MoO3 increases from 3 wt% to 10 wt%. The sample with a 3 wt% MoO3 loading shows a broad deconvoluted peak at 515 ℃, followed by a weak peak centered at 535 ℃. These peaks can be ascribed to either reduction of oxides of manganese as observed in CaMnO3 and/or oxides of molybdenum from Mo6+ to Mo5+ [44], [45], [46], [47]. The peaks appearing at 610 and 690 ℃ are attributed to either reduction of Mo5+ to Mo4+ and/or Mo6+ to Mo4+ [44], [45], [46]. A further increase in Mo content to 5% and 10% exhibits reduction peaks shift towards higher temperature demonstrating covering of perovskite surface with Mo species and hence dominating in enhancing metal-support interaction as well as generating oxide species difficult to reduce. Hence peaks appearing in the temperature range of 500–670 and 670–750 ℃ are characteristic reduction peaks of Mo5+ to Mo4+ and/or Mo6+ to Mo4+[44], [45], [46]. The decrease in area under the curve for Mo impregnated catalysts also shows that the oxygen capacity of perovskite support is influenced with addition of Mo and their role in activity performance is discussed in Section 4. Synthesized catalysts exhibit satisfactory redox properties (oxygen carrying capacity) within the temperature range of interest, making them viable candidates to be used as a carrier of solid phase oxygen.
3.4. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS)
X-ray photoelectron spectra of the synthesized samples were performed to determine the species present in MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts. The results of XPS characterization are presented in Fig. 7(a-d). XPS profiles of the Ca 2p level region depicted in Fig. 7a indicates two main peaks centered at 345.2–345.8 and 348.7–349.3 eV, which are attributed to the Ca 2p3/2 and Ca 2p1/2 species on the perovskite lattice, respectively [48]. These peaks also indicate higher oxidation state as well as presence of oxygen vacancies over the surface of the catalysts [49]. No peak is observed at 346.7 eV associated with the formation of surface CaO and/or CaCO3. The variation in the binding energies, when the molybdenum contents are increased, may alter the electronic structure of the perovskite support, thereby affecting the calcium atoms and/or oxygen vacancies in the lattice. XPS spectrum of Mn 2p (Fig. 7b) peaks of the perovskite matrix, after a careful deconvolution, reveals two major peaks centered at approximately 641.4 and 643.0 eV, 641.4 and 643.0 eV, and 640.3 and 642.0 eV, corresponding to catalysts 3%MoO3/CaMnO3, 5%MoO3/CaMnO3, and 10%MoO3/CaMnO3, respectively [50]. These peaks are mainly assigned to Mn3+ and Mn4+ [51], and increase in Mo content has significantly influenced the ratio of Mn3+ to Mn4+ in agreement with previous reports [52], [53]. Normally, Mn can be present with different overlapping oxidation states of 2+, 3+, a mixture of 2+ and 3+, and 4+ resulting in complicated peak deconvolution [54]. Quantitatively, the majority of Mn2+ ions are in the lower binding energy levels, while Mn3+ and Mn4+ largely contribute to the higher binding energies. Mn2+ ions, mostly in the form of MnO, are normally not expected to be found in solid perovskites as they are not stable at high calcination temperatures [53]. The XPS survey spectrum of MoO3/CaMnO3 (Fig. 7c) with peaks due to Mo 3d show doublets at 231.8 and 234.9 eV for Mo 3d core level due to the presence of Mo5+ 3d5/2 and Mo6+ 3d3/2 orbital electrons, thus confirming the impregnation of MoO3 [39], [55], as established by the XRD results depicted in Fig. 4 for 3% and 5% MoO3/CaMnO3. A further increase in Mo content to 10% (10% MoO3/CaMnO3) reveals a shift in both peaks from 231.8 to 230.8 eV and from 234.9 to 233.9 eV which is assigned to variation in the strength of Mo interaction with perovskite support [56], [57] as evidenced from TPR. A noteworthy aspect is that the intensity of Mo 3d peaks increases as the amount of molybdenum incorporated is increased in line with what is observed earlier in XRD.
Download : Download high-res image (311KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. XPS Spectra of (a) Ca 2p, (b) Mn 2p, (c) Mo 3d, and (d) O 1 s, and for X% MoO3/CaMnO3 Catalyst (where X is 3, 5, and 10).
The XPS spectra of O 1 s (Fig. 7d) of the synthesized catalysts can generally be classified into two classes: Oα and Oβ, according to their binding energies i.e., 528.5–529.2 eV and 530.1–530.7 eV, respectively. The Oα atoms are ascribed to lattice oxygen species, while the Oβ atoms are electrophilic oxygen species over the surface of the catalyst [33], [52], [53]. The XPS results show the presence of Oα in the synthesized catalyst, although it has been previously reported that lattice oxygen species along with electrophilic oxygen species play a very significant role in the oxidation reaction [58]. The binding energy of the O 1 s peak shifts towards lower values with increasing molybdenum content which can be assigned to the extent of interaction between Mo species and lattice oxygen of the perovskite support which is in line with TPR results. Moreover, the area under the curve for each deconvoluted peak indicates that 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 demonstrates higher amount of lattice oxygen as compared with the rest of the catalysts which could influence the catalytic performance as discussed in Section 4.
4. Chemical-looping ODH of Propane (with lattice oxygen)
ODH of propane with MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts was performed in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator, under an atmosphere free of oxygen. In addition to its catalytic role, lattice oxygen of the MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts also serve as the source of oxygen for the ODH reaction. The oxygen-depleted catalysts were re-oxidized (as needed) by circulating air through the catalyst bed as schematically depicted in Fig. 1. The experiments were conducted at various reaction temperatures in the range of 525–600 ℃, establishing possible correlation between propane conversion and product selectivity. Thermal experiments were conducted in the absence of the catalyst in the 525–600 ℃ temperature range to ascertain the effects of the catalyst. Thermal experiments show negligible propane conversion (< 2%) under the reaction conditions used, indicating minimum non-catalytic conversion of propane. The quantity of H2 produced during the non-oxidative reaction was also minimal. On the other hand, propane conversion and product selectivity significantly increase upon the introduction of the catalyst, demonstrating both the catalytic activity and the oxidative effects of lattice oxygen. In the catalytic runs, the reaction product mixtures consisted of propylene, ethylene, COx (CO2 and CO), methane, and unreacted propane (Table 1). The experiments were repeated and the mole balance was computed based on the hydrocarbons and COx (CO2 + CO) to ensure the reproducibility of the catalytic results. The values of overall mole balance are consistent with a standard deviation of ± 5%, indicating an acceptable range of experimental error. A sample calculation of carbon balance is provided in the supporting material.
Table 1. Conversion of Propane and Product Selectivity in ODH of Propane using Lattice Oxygen of CaMnO3 and MoO3/CaMnO3 at 550 ℃.
Catalysts Conversion of Propane (%) Selectivity (%) C3H6 Yield (%)
C3H6 C2H4 C1-C2alkanes COx
CaMnO3 51.0 37.0 54.0 3.0 6.0 18.9
3% MoO3/CaMnO3 36.0 51.0 45.0 2.0 2.0 18.4
5% MoO3/CaMnO3 42.0 50.0 40.0 2.0 8.0 21.0
10% MoO3/CaMnO3 52.0 59.0 29.0 3.0 9.0 30.6
It is noteworthy that the activity of CaMnO3 for propane to propylene via chemical looping ODH is not reported earlier. Hence, this is the first study which presents not only the performance of CaMnO3 but also the role of Mo addition in modifying the catalyst characteristics to witness variation in conversion and product selectivity. The catalytic activity results (Table 1) of CaMnO3 and Mo loaded CaMnO3 catalysts show that Mo addition has significantly influenced the propane conversion as well as product selectivity. For instance, CaMnO3 exhibits propane conversion of 51% with propylene selectivity of 37% and COx selectivity of 6%. The addition of MoO3 up to 3%, though, reduces the propane conversion to 36% but propylene selectivity is increased to 51% and COx selectivity reduces to 2%. It is interesting to note that both CaMnO3 and 3% MoO3/CaMnO3 have exhibited almost similar propylene yield. A further increase in Mo loading to 5% and 10% also demonstrate improved conversion, propylene selectivity, and propylene yield. The presence of lattice oxygen species in CaMnO3 (as evidenced from TPR) largely plays its role in converting propane to propylene and other products. The loading of Mo over CaMnO3 has modified the characteristics of the catalyst such as the strength of metal-support interaction is enhanced, despite higher dispersion of MoO3 (as shown by EDX mapping) the oxides need higher energy to reduce, and the lattice oxygen and electrophilic oxygen species are formed (XPS). These factors are mainly responsible for the activity results. The easily reducible oxygen species in CaMnO3 serve as the base to evaluate the performance of Mo loaded catalysts. Hence, the reduction in conversion for 3% and 5% MoO3/CaMnO3 in comparison with CaMnO3 shows that MoO3 stronger interaction with CaMnO3 reduces the amount of lattice oxygen available for propane activation but Mo addition promotes propylene selectivity and yield. A further increase of Mo to 10% outperforms all the catalysts in terms of conversion and propylene selectivity and yield. XPS results of O 1 s and Ca 2p demonstrate that 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 catalyst has shown relatively higher lattice oxygen species, lesser electrophilic oxygen species, and higher oxygen vacancies which have contributed towards higher activity and selectivity of this catalyst. Gambo et al. [59], [60] has discussed that lattice (nucleophilic) oxygen species promote C−H bond cleavage which improves propylene selectivity while electrophilic oxygen species break C−C bond leading to COx formation. The peak area of O 1 s results portrays that the amount of lattice (nucleophilic) oxygen species decreases from 3% MoO3/CaMnO3 to 5% MoO3/CaMnO3 at the expense of electrophilic oxygen species rendering slight decrease in propylene selectivity and increase in COx selectivity (Table 1).
4.1. Effects of Reaction Temperature
Temperature dependence of propane conversion and product selectivity (propylene, ethylene, and CO2) was investigated using both the CaMnO3 and MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts with different MoO3 loadings. The results are plotted in Fig. 8a to Fig. 8d. As expected, the propane conversion increases with increasing temperature. This is consistent with the reduction behavior of the catalysts [61], as confirmed by the TPR analysis (Fig. 6). For example, in the presence of the CaMnO3 catalyst propane conversion increases from 28% to 56%, when the reaction temperature is increased from 525 ℃ to 600 ℃ (Fig. 8a). From the reaction data and the TPR results, the CaMnO3 does not only serve as a support but as oxygen source for ODH reaction of propane. A similar observation was made in the by Dudek et al [33]. They observed that CaMnO3 was capable of n-hexane conversion into olefin and the addition of Na2WO4 to CaMnO3 enhanced the olefin yield although hexane conversion reduced. The increase in propane conversion with the MoO3 containing catalysts is even more pronounced than with the CaMnO3 catalyst (Fig. 8b-d).
Download : Download high-res image (724KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. a: C3H8 Conversion and C3H6, C2H4, and COx Selectivity over CaMnO3 Catalyst at Different Temperatures (Reaction time: 30 s). b: C3H8 Conversion and C3H6, C2H4, and COx Selectivity over 3%MoO3/CaMnO3 Catalyst at Different Temperatures (Reaction time: 30 s). c: C3H8 Conversion and C3H6, C2H4, and COx Selectivity over 5%MoO3/CaMnO3 Catalyst at Different Temperatures (Reaction time: 30 s). d: C3H8 Conversion and C3H6, C2H4 and COx Selectivity over 10%MoO3/CaMnO3 Catalyst at Different Temperatures (Reaction time: 30 s).
The increase in propane conversion with the MoO3/CaMnO3 catalyst samples, as compared to the CaMnO3 catalyst, can be attributed to the increase of lattice oxygen due to the presence of MoO3, as revealed by the TPR and XPS analysis, which is favorably activated at higher temperatures. Previously, Elbadawi et al. [62] have also reported similar observations in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over vanadium based catalysts. Among the three MoO3 containing catalysts, 5%MoO3/CaMnO3 shows the highest propane conversion of 79% at 600 ℃. At elevated temperatures (≥575 ℃) higher conversions could be attributed to the side reactions promoting propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity as discussed in the following paragraphs.
Propylene selectivity, in the case of all catalyst samples appears to decrease as the reaction temperature is increased. Propylene selectivity is also inversely related to propane conversion. For example, with the CaMnO3 catalyst the propylene selectivity decreases from 63% to 45%, as the reaction temperature is increased from 525 ℃ to 600 ℃. On the other hand, with the 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 catalyst the propylene selectivity decreases from 66% to 30% in the same temperature increase from 525 ℃ to 600 ℃. The following possible reaction steps involving lattice oxygen of the catalysts can be used to explain the relationship between propane conversion and propylene/ethylene selectivity:
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
(16)
(17)
Generally, the decline in the propylene selectivity is related to the increase in the consecutive secondary reactions with the participation of the loosely bound Oα lattice oxygen, presence of which was confirmed by XPS characterization. This loosely bound Oα may contribute to complete oxidation forming CO2 ((11), (12), (13), (14)). This phenomenon also explains the general decrease in the ethylene selectivity and increase in the CO2 selectivity at elevated temperatures. Non-selective CO2 can originate from the cleavage of the C−C bonds in both propane and propylene as reported by Heracleous et al. [18]. As alkenes are more reactive, C−C bond cleavage in olefins is easier than that of their corresponding alkanes. Thus, olefins are rapidly oxidized to CO2 resulting in low propylene selectivity [18]. Furthermore, activation of the C−C bond leads to the adsorption of species such as methoxide and ethoxide that are prone to undergo complete oxidation to form CO and CO2 at elevated reaction temperatures [63], [64]. A critical evaluation of the results reveals that the loading of MoO3 on CaMnO3 catalysts enhances the formation of CO2 at elevated temperatures. This suggests that MoO3 also contributes to the overoxidation of the olefins, in addition to its desired role in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. XPS spectra indicate the formation of new oxygen species, which can be readily released at elevated temperatures resulting in complete oxidation. For instance, CO2 selectivity over CaMnO3 is 24% and 31% at 575 ℃ and 600 ℃, respectively. The corresponding CO2 selectivity with 3% MoO3/CaMnO3 catalyst is 56% and 75% at the respective temperature values. The general increase in undesired CO2 with both catalysts above 550 ℃ can be attributed to two following major pathways; (i) the oxypyrolysis of propane and (ii) the non-catalytic reaction of the desorbed propyl radicals generated from propane over the catalyst [65]. Once again, in this case, the CaMnO3 catalyst appears to be more selective towards the formation of ethylene at 550 ℃ and 575 ℃. This can be attributed to the cracking of propane and the fact that at elevated temperatures, CaMnO3 becomes less redox active as can be seen by the results of H2-TPR analysis.
4.2. Effects of MoO3 loading on product selectivity/yield
Propane was subjected to ODH experiments at a constant temperature of 550 ℃ and a reaction time of 30 s to shed light into the effects of MoO3 loading (Fig. 9). Propylene selectivity and yield over the synthesized catalysts are in the order of 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 > 5% MoO3/CaMnO3 > 3% MoO3/CaMnO3 > CaMnO3 at 550 ℃. These results are consistent with the TPR data, which can be attributed to the reduction temperature and reducibility of the catalyst. The TPR results (Fig. 6) show that the reducibility of the catalyst decreases with increasing MoO3 loading. This observation is in line with the results of Heracleous et al. [18] who found that the presence of MoOx positively influences the olefin selectivity. Panov et al. [66] have shown that selective oxidation can be attributed to strongly bound nucleophilic lattice oxygen. On the other hand, complete oxidation of propane, resulting in low selectivity, is due to the weakly bound oxygen, which are electrophilic in nature.
Download : Download high-res image (175KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Effects of Different MoO3 Loadings on Propane Conversion, Propylene, and Ethylene Selectivity (Temp: 550 ℃; Time: 30 s).
4.3. Effects of the Reduction State of the Catalysts
Propane was subjected to ODH experiments with successive propane injections without reoxidizing the catalyst in between runs to demonstrate the effects of the reduction state of the catalyst on propane conversion and product selectivity. The relevant experiments were conducted with 3% MoO3/CaMnO3 as the catalyst and the results are plotted in Fig. 10. Highest propane conversion of 75% is obtained in the first cycle of propane oxidation, while the propane conversion decreases to 67% in the second injection. Propane conversion further decreases to 57% after the third injection, which remained steady in the last four consecutive injections. The initial high propane conversion is due the abundance and availability of lattice oxygen on the fresh catalyst, as confirmed by the results of XPS analyses. Lattice oxygen activates both C−H and C−C bonds in hydrocarbons to generate both desired and undesired products. Considering that the catalyst is the sole source of oxygen for C−H activation, decline of propane conversion with successive injections is attributed to the depletion of available labile lattice oxygen [67]. A noteworthy aspect of the results is that the selectivity of propylene increases while the propane conversion decreases with consecutive propane injections. Xie et al. [68] have reported similar results. For instance, in our study the propylene selectivity in the first propane injection is only 30%, which increases to 57% in the sixth propane injection cycle. The low initial propylene selectivity is attributed to the higher abundance of labile lattice oxygen in the initial stages of the reaction, which contributes to high propane conversion resulting in both desired and undesired products. Above results indicate that a certain level of reduction of the catalyst is required to obtain an acceptable propylene selectivity with reasonable propane conversion [14], [67]. Hence, the synthesized catalyst can be used in a continuous twin fluidized reactor due its efficient redox activity as confirmed by the results of the TPR and XPS analyses depicted in Fig. 6, Fig. 7, respectively. A small portion of the catalyst (reduced) can be withdrawn from the reactor section and transferred to the regenerator to be reoxidized during the ODH reaction. The regenerated catalyst is then transferred back to the reactor section and the cycle can be repeated. The advantage of this configuration is that it is continuous, thus, facilitating the smooth operation of industrial scale processes [69].
Download : Download high-res image (88KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Propane Conversion and Total Olefin Selectivity in Consecutive Propane Injections without Catalyst Regeneration (Catalyst: 3%MoO3/CaMnO3; Temp: 575 ℃; Time: 30 s).
4.4. Catalyst stability during repeated ODH/regeneration runs
The catalyst was reoxidized after each propane injection during the determination of the stability of the catalyst. Ideally, this process should result in a re-oxidized catalyst with a similar level of oxidation states. The objective of this experiment is to study the stability and reproducibility of the performance of the catalyst over several consecutive cycles. Evaluation of the stability of the synthesized catalyst is essential for it to be used in any potential industrial application. The results of the evaluation of the performance of 3% MoO3/CaMnO3 in repeated cycles of ODH of propane followed by catalyst regeneration runs at 575 ℃ for 30 min are shown in Fig. 11. The results show that the initial propane conversion of 75% is increased to almost 83% in the second cycle, which remains almost constant over the following consecutive reaction cycles. The enhancement of propane conversion can be attributed to the catalyst reoxidation process conducted after each reaction cycle, which replenishes spent lattice oxygen on the catalyst depleted in the previous reaction cycle. Propylene selectivity in the first two cycles is relatively stable at about 30%, which decreases slightly to almost 25% in the last three consecutive cycles. Slight decrease in propylene selectivity can be attributed to the overoxidation of olefins by excess physisorbed oxygen. Hence, the absence of gas-phase oxygen is essential to obtain appreciable propylene selectivity and propane conversion to propylene.
Download : Download high-res image (89KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Propane Conversion and Total Olefin Selectivity with Consecutive Propane Injections and Catalyst Regeneration (Catalyst: 3%MoO3/CaMnO3; Temp: 575 ℃; Time: 30 s).
The catalyst stability was further assessed by coke analysis of the spent catalysts using TGA (Fig. 12). One can see that the weight loss above 150 ℃ is negligible, indicating no carbon deposition on the spent catalyst. The weight loss at the low temperature region may be due to the removal of the adsorbed water molecules [3]. According to Barman et al, coke combustion takes place between the temperature range of 400–600 ℃ [70], [71]. This observation was consistent to the GC analysis of the exhaust gas during the catalyst regeneration cycle, which showed no COx.
Download : Download high-res image (58KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. TGA analysis of spent catalyst for possible coke analysis.
Performance of a catalyst with MoO3 supported on CaMnO3, in which lattice oxygen is used in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, is superior to other similar catalysts. The performance of the catalyst developed in this study is compared with other similar transitional metal catalysts, such as molybdenum and vanadium-based catalysts, reported in the open literature (Table 2 and Fig. 13). Even though there are some differences in the reaction conditions, propane conversion, propylene selectivity and turnover number (TON) obtained using the MoO3/CaMnO3 are comparable with those that have been reported. It is noteworthy that 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 (catalyst A in Table 2) has demonstrated higher TON (1.47 KmolC3H6/molC3H8/molM) than the reported catalysts except 5.0VOx-SBA-15 (corresponds to catalyst J) which exhibited slightly higher TON of 1.61 KmolC3H6/molC3H8/molM. The high activity of the catalyst developed in this study compared to other Mo-based catalysts can be due to several reasons. (i) The redox nature of the perovskite support (CaMnO3), which enhances the activity of the catalyst for ODH, confirmed by the results of the H2-TPR and XPS analyses. (ii) The use of perovskite oxides which are known to be stable at high reaction temperatures. Catalyst deactivation and poor catalytic performance of catalysts based on supports such as Al2O3 is due to sintering of the support at high reaction temperatures (e.g., Mo/Al2O3 in Table 2). (iii) The nature of the reactor used for the ODH reaction, which allows efficient mass transfer. The CREC Riser Simulator has the ability to fluidize the working catalyst allowing excellent mass transport (diffusion) between the catalyst and the reacting gas. Fluidization of the catalyst also prevents the formation of hotspots, allowing uniform temperature distribution within the catalyst chamber.
Table 2. Comparison of the ODH Performance of the MoO3/CaMnO3 Catalyst with the Molybdenum- and Vanadium-Based Catalysts Reported in the Open Literature.
Symbols in Fig. 12 Catalysts Reactor Temp. (℃) C3H6 Yield (%) TONa Ref.
A 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 Fluidized 550 30.6 1.47 This work
B MoK0.1TNT-10 Fixed bed 500 11.60 1.11 [69]
C Li/13Mo/Al Fixed bed 550 9.36 0.09 [72]
D MoK015 Fixed-bed 530 11.0 0.05 [73]
E Mo/Ni= 0.4 Micro-reactor 600 15.6 0.50 [74]
F Mo/Al2O3 Fixed-bed 700 0.9 0.01 [27]
G 1% MoOx/Nanodiamond Fixed-bed 450 7.0 0.67 [75]
H VMgO-SiC monolith Straight channel 600 15.0 0.15 [65]
I 7.5%V/ZrO2-γAl2O3 Fluidized bed 550 23.3 0.39 [67]
J 5.0VOx-SBA-15 Fixed-bed quartz 600 23.8 1.62 [76]
K Boron nitride nanotubes Fixed-bed 500 11.9 0.07 [77]
aTurnover number (TON) in KmolC3H6/molC3H8/molM (M = active metal in the catalyst)
Download : Download high-res image (54KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. Comparing the Production of Propylene using MoO3/CaMnO3 in a CREC Riser Simulator with Some of the Best Catalysts Used for ODH of Propane Published in the Open Literature. The letter symbols correspond to the catalysts listed in Table 2.
4.5. Proposed Reaction Mechanism
Both the catalytic performance and the H2-TPR results obtained using CaMnO3 and MoO3/CaMnO3 catalysts, suggest that the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane reaction is catalyzed via the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, a redox mechanism. This assignment is supported by the fact that the catalytic performance is strongly linked to the reducibility of the catalyst, as confirmed by the TPR and XPS results. According to the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, the reaction pathway can be divided into two parts: (i) the formation of propylene, where the lattice oxygen of the catalyst serves as the source of oxygen for C−H activation, and (ii) the re-oxidation of the reduced catalyst to replenish the oxygen vacancies created by the ODH reaction, in the presence of an oxidant such as oxygen and CO2. Based on this concept and our experimental results, a reaction mechanism is proposed to explain the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene employing the MoO3/CaMnO3 catalyst. The proposed mechanism is formulated to include a sequence of elementary reactions that lead to the formation of reaction products such as propylene, water, and some reaction intermediates (Fig. 14).
Download : Download high-res image (230KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 14. Proposed Reaction Scheme for Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane to Propylene Employing a Catalyst with MoO3 Supported on CaMnO3.
The first step in the proposed mechanism involves the non-dissociative adsorption of propane on the lattice oxygen sites of the catalyst. The second stage involves the abstraction of hydrogen from the propane molecule. Considering that the activation energy required for the dissociation of the secondary C−H bonds is lower than the activation energy required for the dissociation of the primary C−H bonds, hydrogen is abstracted from the secondary C−H bonds instead of the primary C−H bonds of the propane molecule. The electron-deficient electrophilic type, which are highly reactive but provides poor olefins selectivity due to deep oxidation, while the electron rich nucleophilic oxygen are moderately active and highly selective olefins. The electrophilic oxygen species are considered to activate the first C-H bond of propane to produce an alkyl intermediates to cause deep oxidation [78]. On the other hand, the C−H bond cleavage occurs on a nucleophilic lattice oxygen site leading to the formation of a hydroxyl group and isopropoxide. The third stage involves the formation of propylene and a hydroxyl group by the second abstraction of hydrogen from C−H bonds of methyl groups in isopropoxide. Produced propylene desorbs from the surface of the catalyst and the two adjacent hydroxyl groups combine through hydrogen bonding to form H2O. Oxidation of propane leads to the formation of a reduced form of the catalyst (Mo4+or Mo5+), which is subsequently reoxidized by gas phase oxygen, as schematically depicted in Fig. 1. Above steps are repeated in each cycle [63], [79], [80], [81].
5. Conclusion
The effects of MoO3 impregnation on CaMnO3 perovskites were studied using physicochemical characterization and gas phase oxygen-free oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator. Following are the conclusions of the study:
(i)
XRD characterization shows the presence of a well-formed crystalline orthorhombic CaMnO3 perovskite in all catalyst samples, even after molybdenum impregnation.
(ii)
SEM images show the formation a homogenous and spongy material with a well-ordered porous morphology. Elemental mapping results obtained from EDX analysis show an excellent dispersion of MoO3 over the perovskite support.
(iii)
H2-TPR analysis shows that all synthesized catalysts are reducible and that the reducibility of the prepared catalysts appears to decrease as the amount of molybdenum deposited on the perovskite support is increased. This demonstrates that there is strong Mo-support interaction.
(iv)
XPS characterization confirms the existence of molybdenum in two different oxidation states (Mo6+ and Mo5+) and the presence of manganese as Mn4+ and Mn3+, which affirms the redox nature of the catalyst for active oxidative dehydrogenation reaction. Moreover, XPS Ca 2p and O 1 s results indicate the presence of lattice (nucleophilic) oxygen species, electrophilic oxygen species, and oxygen vacancies.
(v)
Impregnation of MoO3 on the CaMnO3 perovskite support enhances propane conversion. Maximum conversion over CaMnO3 is approximately 56%, while a maximum propane conversion of 79% is obtained using a catalyst with 5%MoO3 loaded on CaMnO3 at 600 ℃. This is due to the availability of abundant lattice oxygen.
(vi)
The highest propylene selectivity of 59% and a yield of 30.7% were achieved at 550 ℃, using a 10% MoO3/CaMnO3 catalyst.
(vii)
Reoxidation of the catalyst between consecutive reaction cycles, decreases the total olefin selectivity due to over oxidation, although it enhances the propane conversion.
(viii)
Successive reactions using a 3% MoO3/CaMnO3 catalyst, without regeneration in between reactions show that the propylene selectivity is enhanced after the first reaction cycle, while propane conversion remains relatively stable.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Majid L. Balogun: Experimental and manuscript writing; Wasim Ullah Khan: Review and editing; M. Nasiruzzaman Shaikh: Catalyst synthesis and characterization; Sagir Adamu: Experimental and data analysis, Abeer S. Arjah: review and editing; Saad A. Al-Bogami: review and editing; Sameer Al-Ghamdi: review and editing; Mohammad M. Hossain: Funding acquisition, conceptualization, results analysis and manuscript review and editing.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
The author(s) would like to acknowledge the support provided by the Deanship of Research Oversight and Coordination (DROC) at King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM) for funding this work through project No. DF191028. The authors would like to acknowledge the Research & Development Center, Saudi Aramco Oil Company for their collaboration. The authors would also like to thank the Center for Hydrogen & Energy Storage at KFUPM for several catalyst characterizations. The authors would also like to acknowledge Florencia de Lasa for assisting with the editing of this paper.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
