I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Strong OxideSupport Interactions Accelerate Selective Dehydrogenation of Propane by Modulating the Surface Oxygen
Abstract
The catalytic selectivity of supported catalysts can be tuned by the appropriate design of synthesis strategies and catalyst structures. We provide a persuasive strategy to turn manganese oxide from a combustion catalyst into a selective catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). This success is achieved by anchoring amorphous manganese oxide with thin-layer morphology on a ceria support via constructing strong oxidesupport interactions (SOSIs). Multiple structure and mechanism investigations demonstrate that the SOSI forms active interfacial oxygen sites for propane activation and oxygen-deficient manganese oxide to stabilize propene and hinder overoxidation under the ODHP conditions. These features boost the ODHP to exhibit simultaneously high activity and propene selectivity, outperforming the general manganese oxide catalysts and even the practically promising vanadium catalysts. This research work deepens remarkably the structureperformance relationship understanding of metal oxide catalysts in ODHP.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propene oxidative dehydrogenation manganese oxide catalyst surface oxygen strong oxide-support interactions
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propene, one of the most important basic molecules in the modern chemical industry, has been commercially used as a building block for a vast array of polymers, dyes, fibers, resins, pharmaceuticals, and fine chemicals. (15) The worldwide demand for propene may reach 116000000 tons in 2020, but there is still a huge gap between the supply and demand of propene. The current dominant route for propene production is the steam cracking of large hydrocarbons in naphtha, which relies on the raw materials from crude oil. (5) The recent trend using shale gas as low-cost feedstock is regarded to be promising for olefin production, where practical applications have emerged in ethene production from cracking of propane. (1) However, the propene production from shale gas still cannot meet the demand; although the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane, such as the Oleflex process by Honeywell UOP and the Catofin process by ABB Lummus Global, (1,6) has been commercially used, these processes still rely on the noble Pt- (7,8) and toxic Cr-based (9) catalysts and also suffer from the catalyst deactivation from coke. (10,11) Compared with the nonoxidative process, the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) would save 45.0% of the energy consumption because of the favorable thermodynamic features including exothermicity and lower reaction temperatures. (12,13) The ODHP also has superior catalyst durability by preventing the coke formation on the catalyst surface. (14) However, the current ODHP processes have a big problem of the overoxidation of propene, which is more reactive than propane, into thermodynamically stable CO/CO2, resulting in insufficient propene selectivity. (1,14,15) For example, the supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which show the promising performances for ODHP, give the propene selectivity at about 50% with 10% conversion of propane, which is even reduced at higher propane conversions. (16,17) Such performances couple with the tough situation that a large amount of propane would be burned into CO/CO2 if the ODHP is employed to satisfy the propene demand. Apart from vanadium oxide, the other active metal oxides for the hydrocarbon oxidation, such as MnOx and CoOx, generally proceed the combustion rather than selective oxidative dehydrogenation. (1821) Although the boron-based catalysts have been found to be highly selective in ODHP, (24) the metal oxide catalysts still need deep investigation with regards to the potential practical application. Any new insight into the interplay between the catalyst structure and performances may accelerate the development of new metal oxide catalysts with enhanced ODHP performances.
Herein, we demonstrate a strategy to turn the metal oxide from a combustion catalyst into a selective catalyst for ODHP by optimizing the catalyst structures. The manganese oxide catalyst was employed as a model because it is well known as a combustion catalyst. The key technique is to anchor the amorphous manganese oxide with thin-layer morphology on a ceria support, which forms strong oxidesupport interactions (SOSIs) with interfacial MnOCe sites for carbonhydrogen bond activation and oxygen-deficient manganese oxide layers to hinder the propene overoxidation under the ODHP conditions. Owing to these features, this manganese oxide catalyst exhibits remarkably improved selectivity in ODHP to even outperform the vanadium oxide catalysts.
2. Experimenal Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
2.1.1. Synthesis of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI
Cerium nitrate [Ce(NO3)3·6H2O] (6 g) and manganese nitrate [Mn(NO3)2] aqueous solution (50 wt %) (0.26 g) were mixed in 5 g of ethanol and 5 g of deionized water in flask A and further stirred at room temperature (RT) for 20 min. Meanwhile, 4.8 g of the citric acid monohydrate and 2 g of glycerol were dissolved in 5 g of ethanol and 5 g of deionized water in flask B and stirred at room temperature for 20 min. Then, the solution from flask B was added into flask A under stirring, followed by stirring at room temperature for another 3 h. Subsequently, the mixture was transferred into an oil bath and stirred at 90 C for 3 h in a closed reactor and for another 3 h in an open reactor to volatilize the ethanol and water solvent to obtain a foamed solid. After being dried at 100 C for 12 h and calcined at 800 C for 4 h in air to remove the organic species, the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst was finally obtained. The Mn loading in the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst was controlled at 1.5 wt % [Mn/(Mn + Ce) at 0.05, molar ratio] by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) analysis. The other MnOxCeO2 catalysts with different Mn loadings were synthesized by changing the amount of manganese nitrate [Mn(NO3)2] in the starting solution, where 0.05, 0.15, 1.09, and 1.73 g of a manganese nitrate [Mn(NO3)2] aqueous solution (50 wt %) were used for the synthesis of catalysts with Mn loading at 0.3 wt % [Mn/(Mn + Ce) at 0.01, molar ratio], 0.9 wt % [Mn/(Mn + Ce) at 0.03, molar ratio], 6.0 wt % [Mn/(Mn + Ce) at 0.2, molar ratio], and 9.0 wt % [Mn/(Mn + Ce) at 0.3, molar ratio], respectively. If there is no special mention, the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI denotes the catalysts with Mn loading at 1.5 wt %.
2.1.2. Synthesis of CeO2
The CeO2 support was synthesized through the same procedure as used for synthesizing MnOx/CeO2-SOSI, except that no manganese nitrate aqueous solution was added to the starting solutions.
2.1.3. Synthesis of MnOx/CeO2, MnOx/SiO2, and VOx/MgO Catalysts
As a typical run for the synthesis of MnOx/CeO2, 2.4 g of CeO2 (CeO2 was prepared by the critic acid-assisted method aforementioned) and 0.26 g of the manganese nitrate [Mn(NO3)2] aqueous solution (50 wt %) were mixed. After impregnation, the solid was placed in the atmosphere statically overnight, dried in the oven, and calcined at 600 C for 2 h in air to obtain the MnOx/CeO2 catalyst. The MnOx/SiO2 and VOx/MgO catalysts were synthesized by the same method, except for the use of SiO2 as the support for MnOx/SiO2, ammonium metavanadate as the precursor, and MgO as the support for VOx/MgO. To investigate the effect of the calcination temperature on the catalytic performance of the catalysts, these catalysts were also calcined at 800 C for 4 h in air (a condition that is the same as that of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI), obtaining the samples that were denoted MnOx/CeO2@800, MnOx/SiO2@800, and VOx/MgO@800.
2.1.4. Synthesis of Mn0.05Ce0.95Ox Mixed Oxides
The Mn0.05Ce0.95Ox mixed oxides were prepared following the co-precipitation method in the literature. (22) Typically, 6 g of cerium nitrate [Ce(NO3)3·6H2O] and 0.26 g of the manganese nitrate [Mn(NO3)2] aqueous solution (50 wt %) were dissolved separately in 20 mL of deionized water and mixed together. Then, an aqueous ammonia solution (2830 wt %) was added dropwise into the mixed solution (pH at 9.5) under stirring. After a continuous stirring at room temperature for another 24 h, the resulting precipitate was collected by filtrating, washing with a large excess of water, and drying at 100 C for 12 h. Finally, the collected powder was calcined in air at 500 C for 5 h (the heating and cooling rates were controlled at 5 C/min, and the calcination temperature was chosen according to ref (22)) to decompose the residual nitrates and receive the final Mn0.05Ce0.95Ox mixed oxide catalyst. To investigate the effect of the calcination temperature on the catalytic performance, the catalyst was also calcined at 800 C for 4 h in air (a condition that is the same as that of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI) and was denoted Mn0.05Ce0.95Ox@800 mixed oxide.
2.1.5. Synthesis of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI Catalyst-Acid Washed
The as-prepared MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst was washed with diluted hydrochloric acid (20%) at 90 C for 4 h. The solid was collected by centrifugation, and then it was washed with a large excess of deionized water and dried at 100 C for 12 h. Then, the material was calcined in air at 400 C for 2 h to obtain the catalyst denoted MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst-acid washed.
2.2. Characterization
2.2.1. In Situ Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Characterizations
The in situ FTIR spectra were recorded using a Nicolet is50 FTIR spectrometer equipped with an MCT/A detector and ZeSe windows and a high-temperature reaction chamber. The spectra of propane adsorption on the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI, CeO2, and MnO2 catalysts were recorded at elevated temperatures. As a typical run, 50 mg of the as-prepared MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst was localized in the sample chamber and pretreated at 200 C for 0.5 h in flowing He (30 mL/min). Then, the catalyst was cooled down to room temperature and the backgrounds were collected after He purging for at least 3 h. After that, the gas was switched to flowing propane (10 vol % in He) and the FTIR spectrum was recorded with time until there was no visible change in the intensities of the absorption band. Subsequently, the temperature of the chamber was increased in flowing propane (10 vol % in He), and the FTIR spectra were recorded to understand the interaction between C3H8 and the oxygen species on the catalyst surface. The spectra of propane adsorption on CeO2 and MnO2 catalysts were also recorded with the same procedures, except for locating CeO2 and MnO2 in the sample chamber.
To better understand the ODHP reaction pathways over different catalysts, we introduced the isopropanol stream into the reaction cell, and the IR spectra of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI and CeO2 catalysts were recorded at different temperature. Typically, 50 mg of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst was pretreated at 200 C with pure He for 30 min and then cooled to room temperature and the backgrounds were collected after He purging for at least 3 h. Then, the stream containing isopropanol (a partial pressure of 5.95 kPa at room temperature) was introduced into the system with a flow of He carrier gas (30 mL/min). After adsorption for 0.5 h at room temperature, the FTIR spectrum of isopropanol adsorbed on the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst was recorded. Then, the temperature of the chamber was increased in the stream of isopropanol, and the FTIR spectra were recorded at different temperatures. For comparison, the CeO2 catalyst was also characterized following the same procedures.
2.2.2. In Situ Raman Characterizations
In situ Raman spectra were recorded using an HR800 Raman spectrometer equipped with an Ar excitation source (λ = 514.532 nm) and an in situ cell. As a typical run for the C3H8 adsorption on the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst, the catalyst was localized in the in situ cell and dried in a vacuum drying oven for 12 h to remove the water species, and the spectrum was recorded at room temperature in air. Then, a feed gas of C3H8 (10 vol % in He) with a flowing rate of 20 mL/min was introduced into the reaction cell, and the spectra were recorded after 30 min. Subsequently, the cell was heated and the Raman spectra were recorded. Finally, to identify the regeneration capacity of surface oxygen species, the catalyst was treated in O2 (20 vol % in He, 10 mL/min) at 400 C for 30 min, and the spectra were recorded at room temperature. To confirm the interaction between the C3H6 product and solid catalyst surface, the in situ test was also performed in the flowing C3H6 following the similar procedures. Note: It is relatively difficult to determine the conversion of the propane during the in situ experiments, so the catalytic turnover was not confirmed when recording the spectra.
2.2.3. Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) Measurements
The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) measurements were carried out in a quasi in situ model using a bespoke U-shape reaction tube connected to a quartz EPR tube equipped with a greaseless high-vacuum stopcock. The sample was loaded within the tube and reduced at 400 C for 1 h with hydrogen. Then, the samples were transferred to the EPR tube without access to air, and the EPR tube was connected to a vacuum system and evacuated at room temperature. The EPR signals were collected at 100 K. After the measurements, the samples in the tube were exposed to air for different periods to detect the change in EPR signals.
2.2.4. Temperature Programmed Reduction (TPR) Characterizations
Temperature-programmed reduction with hydrogen (H2-TPR) was carried out on a catalyst analyzer BELCAT II instrument equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). Typically, 200 mg of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI or MnOx/SiO2 was pretreated at 400 C for 1 h in O2 flow (10 vol % in He) and 0.5 h in pure He flow (50 mL/min) to remove impurities adsorbed on the surface and then cooled to 30 C, followed by introducing H2 gas flow (5 vol % in He, 50 mL/min). The TCD signal was collected by heating the samples in H2 gas flow (5 vol % in He) to 600 C at a heating rate of 10 C/min and a holding time of 60 min. Then, the sample was cooled and treated with O2 flow (10 vol % in He) at room temperature (RT), 100, or 300 C for 1 h or propane and oxygen mixed gas (10 vol % C3H8/10 vol % O2/80 vol % He) at 500 C for 1 h, followed by pure He purge at each temperature for another 0.5 h. After cooling to 30 C, the second run for the TPR measurement was performed following the same procedures as in the first run.
2.2.5. Mass Spectrometry (MS) Studies
The gas-phase mass spectrometry experiments were performed using a homemade instrument with a laser vaporization source and a reflection time-of-flight (ToF) mass spectrometer coupled with a quadrupole mass filter (QMF) and a linear ion-trap (LIT) reactor. Details of the apparatus can be found in our previous studies, (23) and only a brief outline of the experiment is given below. The species were generated via a pulsed laser vaporization cluster source using the second harmonic of a Nd:YAG laser. The catalyst was ablated in the presence of a supersonic beam of carrier gas, and the typical backing pressure was 45 atm. The ions of interest were mass-selected by a QMF and entered into an LIT reactor, where they were confined and thermalized by collisions with a pulse of He gas and then interacted with a pulse of C3H8 or C3H6 for a period of time. The instantaneous gas pressure of He in the reactor was around 1.6 Pa. It has been proved that the clusters are thermalized to (or close to) room temperature before reactions in the previous studies. (23,24) The method to derive the rate constants is described in detail in ref (25).
2.2.6. Electron Microscopy Characterizations
The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images were recorded with Hitachi SU-8010 electron microscopes. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) images were taken on a Cs-corrected JEM-ARM300F Grand ARM electron microscope (JEOL, Japan) with an acceleration voltage of 300 kV and a JEM-2100F electron microscope (JEOL) with an acceleration voltage of 200 kV, respectively.
The details for other catalyst characterizations are included in the Supporting Information.
2.3. Catalyst Performance Evaluation
2.3.1. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane (ODHP)
The ODHP was carried out in a continuous-flow fixed-bed reactor with a quartz tube (i.d. 7.4 mm, 270 mm long) at a constant total pressure (0.1 MPa). The feed gases were controlled separately by three mass flow controllers (MFC D07, Sevenstar, Beijing) to vary the total flows and the partial pressures of the reactants. The temperature of the reactor was measured by a thermocouple placed at the inner center of the catalyst bed. The feedstock and reaction products were analyzed online by gas chromatography (GC-1690). Two columns were operated in parallel: a Porapak QS column (4.0 m × 1/8 in.) connected to a flame ionization detector (FID) to separate and detect propane, propylene, and other organic gases and a TDX-01 column (2.0 m × 1/8 in.) connected to a TCD to separate and detect the permanent gases (O2, CO, and CO2). The products were further confirmed by mass spectrometry analysis (SRD200M, TILON). It is worthwhile noting that the gas-phase homogeneous reaction could be excluded by the blank experiments, and it has a negligible contribution to the reaction. The propane conversion and the selectivity to the reaction products were calculated by peak area normalization. The kinetic data of all catalysts were measured under different conditions (propane conversions <2.0%). The apparent activation energies (Ea) of propane ODH were calculated based on the Arrhenius equation.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Catalyst Synthesis and Structure Investigation
The ceria-supported manganese oxide catalyst with SOSI (MnOx/CeO2-SOSI) was obtained by temperature-programmed calcination of the MnCe mixed citrate precursor, which was a fluffy material, by controllably foaming a mixture of Ce(NO3)3, Mn(NO3)2, and critic acid (Figure S1 in the Supporting Information). Because cerium citrate has significantly lower decomposition temperature (161 C, a temperature for the transformation of citrates into oxides) than manganese citrate (296 C) (Figure S2 in the Supporting Information), the ceria was formed before manganese oxide, leading to manganese oxide species tiling on the surface of the ceria matrix (Figures S3 and S4 in the Supporting Information). For comparison, the well-known VOx/MgO catalyst (vanadium oxide loaded on MgO, Figure S5 in the Supporting Information), CeO2- and SiO2-supported MnOx particles (MnOx/CeO2 and MnOx/SiO2, Figures S6 and S7 in the Supporting Information), Mn0.05Ce0.95Ox mixed oxides (prepared by co-deposition, Figure S8 in the Supporting Information), bare manganese oxide (MnO2), and cerium oxide (CeO2) were synthesized (Figure S9 and Table S1 in the Supporting Information).
The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst (Figure S9 in the Supporting Information) gives the diffractions of a typical CeO2 crystal (19,26,27) with an undetectable shift compared with pure CeO2, suggesting the lack of the MnCe solid-solution phase. (19) The undetectable diffraction of manganese oxide is due to its high dispersion and/or low loading amount. (28) Mercury intrusion probes the abundant large pores in MnOx/CeO2-SOSI that should be generated from the foaming treatment (Figures S10 and S11 in the Supporting Information), and the micro/mesopores are almost undetectable by the N2-sorption test (Table S1 in the Supporting Information).
Figure 1a shows the TEM characterization of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst, where the CeO2 matrix is observed using a high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) image. The energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental maps provide the elemental distributions (Figures 1b and S12), showing the two types of manganese signal distribution: the irregular agglomerates with diameters ranging from15 to 25 nm and the layers with a thickness at 0.52.5 nm on the surface of the CeO2 matrix (Figure 1be). These signals might be from the similar layered structure of manganese oxide from different view directions. The high-resolution HAADF-STEM characterization of the region containing irregular agglomerates of Mn gave sole observation of the CeO2 lattice with undetectable lattice features of manganese oxide crystals (Figure 1f). Drawing support from the high-resolution elemental map, we identified the regions with (highlighted by cyan circles in Figure 1f,g) and without Mn species (highlighted by yellow circles in Figure 1f,g); they showed the same lattice feature assigned to typical CeO2 (fast Fourier transform (FFT) data, Figure 1h,i). The HAADF-STEM image distinguished the regions containing Mn or the bare CeO2 matrix by Z-contrast but showing the same lattices by the FFT analysis (Figure S13 in the Supporting Information). These data confirm the MnCe solid solution could not be a dominant phase in the Mn-containing regions because the ionic radii of manganese ions are considerably smaller than those of cerium ions and will lead to the contractive lattice space on the MnCe solid solution compared to CeO2, (19,29) (19,29) in good agreement with the XRD results (Figures S8 and S9 in the Supporting Information). In addition, the crystalline feature of MnOx is undetectable but shows the amorphous feature. Figure 1j,k shows the atomic observation of the element distributions, where the Ce and O exhibit a regular distribution identical with the CeO2 lattice, but Mn is randomly distributed in an irregular region (Figure S14 in the Supporting Information). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst gives the atomic Mn/Ce ratio of 0.2 on the catalyst surface, which is much higher than 0.05 in the whole oxides, further confirming that the MnOx species are enriched on the solid surface. These features are well consistent with the amorphous and thin-layer MnOx species on the CeO2 matrix, rather than the bulk manganese oxides supported on the CeO2 or MnCe solid solution that are usually obtained from the conventional deposition method.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Electron microscopy characterization. (a) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding (b) elemental Mn map of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst. (c) bright-field (BF)-STEM image and the corresponding (d, e) Mn, Ce, and O elemental maps. The white rectangles highlight the section view of the layered MnOx species. (f) High-resolution HAADF-STEM image and (g) corresponding elemental Mn map. FFT analysis of the regions (h) without and (i) with Mn species. (j) Atomic-resolution STEM image and the corresponding (k) Mn, Ce, and O elemental distribution.
The EPR spectrum of the as-prepared MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst shows sextuple signals with a g-factor of 2.00 assigned to ceria with oxygen vacancies and Ce3+ sites (black line in Figure 2a), as confirmed by the XPS analysis (Figure S15 in the Supporting Information). (30) However, the bare CeO2 exhibited extremely weak sextuple signals (black line in Figure 2b). This phenomenon should be due to the strong oxide (MnOx)support (CeO2) interactions in MnOx/CeO2-SOSI, which changed the surface oxidation status of CeO2. The SOSI was also identified by the O K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) characterization. As shown in Figure 2c, the bare CeO2 shows three O K-edge absorption peaks at 530, 532, and 537 eV, which can be assigned to electronic transitions from the O 1s core level to empty O 2p hole states hybridized with the cerium- dominated 4f, 5d eg, and 5d t2g levels, respectively. (31,32) The intensities of the peaks at 532 and 537 eV (I532 and I537) are sensitive to the lattice oxygen in the matrix. (32,33) Compared with pure CeO2, the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst shows a much lower ratio of I532/I537 (IB/IC), confirming the existence of more oxygen vacancies, (3436) which are reasonably induced by the SOSI.
Figure 2
Figure 2. MnOxCeO2 interaction study. EPR spectra of (a) MnOx/CeO2-SOSI and (b) CeO2 samples after different treatments. (c) XANES spectra of the O K-edge of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst and CeO2.
In situ reduction of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI with hydrogen resulted in unchanged Ce3+ signals but raised a series of narrow and sharp peaks assigned to the oxygen-deficient MnOx with disordered and optimized Mn2+ distribution (Figure 2a). (30,37) In contrast, the general MnO2 and supported MnOx particles (MnOx/CeO2 and MnOx/SiO2) still exhibited broad peaks after the equivalent treatment because of the high orderliness of the manganese oxide lattice and the lack of well-dispersed Mn2+ species in these samples (Figures S16 and S17 in the Supporting Information). (38,39) Under the equivalent reduction treatment, the bare CeO2 exhibited raised Ce3+ signals due to the removal of active oxygen to form vacancies; these signals are reversed immediately by accessing air for 10 min to regenerate the oxygen sites (Figure 2b). Interestingly, the EPR signals of the reduced MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst are unchanged after being exposed in air for even 24 h, confirming the well-maintained oxygen-deficient Mn2+ feature (Figure 2a). This phenomenon is reasonably due to the SOSI between the MnOx layers with CeO2, which stabilized the Mn2+ sites to hinder the regeneration of active oxygen. This conclusion is further confirmed by the cascade temperature-programmed reduction tests (Figure S18 in the Supporting Information), suggesting the stability of the oxygen defects on the MnOx layers of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst.
3.2. Catalytic Evaluation
The synthesized catalysts were evaluated in the ODHP under the extensively employed conditions (atmospheric pressure, 500 C, C3H8/O2/He at 1/1/8). The blank run without catalysts showed the propane conversion lower than 0.2% to exclude the influence of gas-phase homogeneous reaction. The MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst exhibited extraordinary selectivity to propene of 84.8% under a propane conversion of 4.2%, which steadily outperforms the propene selectivity at 60.0% over various vanadium catalysts at similar conversions (Figure 3a), (16,17) and even higher than that of the MnWO4, the state-of-the-art Mn-based catalysts in ODHP. (40) Raising the propane conversion reduced the propylene selectivity due to the overoxidation to COx, which is a general phenomenon on the metal oxide catalysts. (16) However, propene selectivity of 61.0% is still obtained over the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst with a propane conversion of 10.0%. On the other hand, the vanadium catalysts showed propene selectivities less than 50.0% at a similar propane conversion (10.0%). The other Mn-based catalysts and CeO2 exhibit poor propene selectivity (<40.0%) under similar propane conversions (10.012.0%), which are in good agreement with their combustion properties (Figure 3a). To exclude the effect of the pretreatment temperatures of the catalysts on the catalytic performances, the different Mn-based catalysts and vanadium catalysts were also calcined at 800 C, but no enhancement of the activity was observed (Figure S19 in the Supporting Information).
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Dependences of propene selectivity on propane conversion over various catalysts. The solid shapes present the data from this work, and the data of hollow shapes are from the references. Detailed reaction conditions for the different samples and reference data are presented in Figure S21 and Table S2 in the Supporting Information, respectively. (b) Data showing the reaction rates and propene selectivity of different catalysts in ODHP at similar propane conversions (5.0%). Reaction conditions: 430 C for MnO2 and 500 C for other samples for controlling the similar propane conversions at 5.0%, PC3H8 = 10 kPa, PO2 = 10 kPa, He as the balanced gas, weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) (mLgas/(gcat h)): 6750 for CeO2, 9000 for VOx/MgO, 120000 for MnOx/CeO2 and MnOx/SiO2, 399960 for MnOx/CeO2-SOSI, 1200000 for MnO2, and 1333320 for Mn0.05Ce0.95Ox. (c) Propene formation rates (molC3H6/(molV/Mn h)) over VOx/MgO and MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalysts at 5.0% C3H8 conversion.
Kinetic insights were obtained by measuring the reaction rates with different reactant concentrations, giving first-order rate dependence with respect to propane partial pressure and zero-order rate dependence in oxygen partial pressure over the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst (Figure 4a,b). This feature is the same as the supported vanadium oxide catalysts that follow a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism in the oxidations. (41) Compared with VOx/MgO, one of the most efficient vanadium oxide catalysts reported previously, (42) the Mn-containing catalysts exhibited faster propane transformation (Figure 3b, propane conversion of 5.0% for average rate measurements; Figure S20 in the Supporting Information), confirming the high activity of Mn-based catalysts. With regard to the product selectivity, the Mn0.05Ce0.95Ox, MnOx/CeO2, MnOx/SiO2, and MnO2 dominantly catalyze the combustion rather than ODHP, giving insufficient propene production rates with high selectivity to invaluable CO/CO2 (50.078.0%) (Figures 3b and S21). In contrast, the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst shows simultaneously high average rates for propane conversion (67.9 mmol/(gcat h)) and propene production (57.5 mmol/(gcat h)), giving the selectivity for CO/CO2 at only 15.2%, which is even lower than that of the VOx/MgO catalyst (30.7%). Furthermore, the apparent propane activation energy on MnOx/CeO2-SOSI is 62.59 kJ/mol, much lower than 150.68 kJ/mol on the VOx/MgO catalyst (Figure 4c), demonstrating the easier activation of propane on MnOx/CeO2-SOSI. On the basis of Mn or V amounts in the reaction system, the propene formation rate could reach 210.7 mol/(molMn h) over the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst, obviously higher than 1.7 mol/(molV h) over the VOx/MgO catalyst (Figure 3c). These results confirm the significantly enhanced efficacy of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in ODHP compared with the vanadium oxide catalyst.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a, b) Dependences of propane transformation rates on partial pressures of oxygen and propane over the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst. (c) Arrhenius plots of ODHP over various catalysts. The apparent activation energies are presented in the figure. (d) Dependences of propene selectivity and productivity on time over the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in ODHP. Reaction conditions: 500 C, WHSV = 600000 mL/(gcat h), PC3H8 = 16.6 kPa, PO2 = 16.6 kPa, He as the balance gas.
The MnOx species should play a dominant role in the ODHP because the bare CeO2 support exhibits CO2 as a dominant product with low propane transformation rate and high apparent activation energy (Figures 3b, 4c, and S21). In addition, leaching the surface Mn species by acid treatment of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst remarkably decreased the propane conversion and propene selectivity and raised the apparent activation energy (Figures 4c and S22). Decreasing the MnOx loading in MnOx/CeO2-SOSI reduced the catalytic activity, but the propene selectivity was mostly maintained (Figure S23), while raising the MnOx loading led to overoxidation (Figure S24 in the Supporting Information). These results indicate that the MnOx-related species rather than the bare ceria are the active sites for the catalytic turnover. More importantly, the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst exhibits constant catalytic performance during the continuous ODHP tests, giving an average propene productivity of 6.05 kgC3H6/(kgcat h) (Figure 4d and Table S3 in the Supporting Information), suggesting its good durability (Figure S25 in the Supporting Information).
3.3. Mechanism Investigation
The catalytic data above demonstrate the unusual catalytic performances of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in ODHP. Compared with the general manganese oxide catalysts, the most significant advantage of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI is tuning the reaction pathways from combustion to the selective oxidative dehydrogenation. The mechanism in metal-oxide-catalyzed alkane oxidation has been extensively investigated on the supported vanadium oxide catalysts, where the two-dimensional vanadium oxide layers and even the isolated tetrahedral V5+ species on solid carriers are recognized to be crucial for the olefin selectivity, and the vanadium oxide species with abundant oxygen defects could hinder the overoxidation. (4244) The bulky vanadium oxide with rich active surface oxygen generally leads to overoxidation, which is similar to that of the general manganese oxides. However, for the MnOxCeO2-based catalysts, the high selectivity has not been realized before and the mechanism is still unknown. Our characterizations have confirmed the existence of stable oxygen defects on the amorphous MnOx layers of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI, which exhibits the same kinetic behavior as the supported vanadium oxide catalysts (Figure 4a,b). These phenomena suggest that the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst might follow a similar mechanism of vanadium oxide catalysts in tuning the reaction pathways from combustion to selective ODHP: the surface oxygen is modulated to hinder the overoxidation.
To obtain deep insights into the interactions between propane and the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst surface, in situ FTIR was performed in propane gas flow. As shown in Figure S26 in the Supporting Information, an obvious signal of isopropoxide species (3726 cm1) was observed, which is the key intermediate in ODHP. (4547) Such isopropoxide species should be from the CH bond interacting with active oxygen on the oxides [MnO(H)M, M = Mn or Ce]. (45,46) In addition, the CC signal (1586 cm1) was also detected, confirming the ODHP over the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst. Under the equivalent conditions, the bare CeO2 also exhibited the bands of hydroxyl species but gave extremely weak CC signals (Figure S27 in the Supporting Information), while the MnO2 catalyst showed undetectable CC species (Figure S28 in the Supporting Information), in good agreement with their relatively low catalytic activity or selectivity compared with the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in ODHP.
Further insights were obtained using isopropanol as a feed, which can easily react with the catalyst surface to form isopropoxide species for simulating the primary intermediate from propane activation. (46,47) In the in situ FTIR spectra with isopropanol feed, the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst showed the CC band (1586 cm1, Figure S29 in the Supporting Information), demonstrating the facial dehydration to produce propene, while the CO signal (1725 cm1), which is regarded as an intermediate of overoxidation, (46) was almost undetectable. On the contrary, the CeO2 gave a weak CC (1586 cm1) but an enhanced CO signal (1742 cm1), demonstrating the reaction trend for overoxidation (Figure S30 in the Supporting Information). These data confirm the favorable propane conversion via ODHP and hindrance of overoxidation on the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst, which is also supported by the temperature-programmed propane/propene combustion tests (Figure S31 in the Supporting Information).
With regard to the propane oxidative dehydrogenation and propene overoxidation, two types of oxygen sites might work in these reactions, including the MnOxCeO2 interfacial oxygen and the surface oxygen of amorphous MnOx layers. The surface oxygen or oxygen vacancies of the CeO2 support were not considered because of its relatively low activity (Figures 3b and S21). To identify the functions of these species, we performed the temperature-programmed Raman characterizations of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in flowing propane or propene (Figure 5), because the removal of such oxygen species could lead to the shift or intensity change of the MnOx mode. The as-synthesized MnOx/CeO2-SOSI with both surface oxygen on amorphous MnOx layers and interfacial oxygen on the MnOxCeO2 interface was used, which benefits the in situ study to identify the reaction between the CH/CC species with different oxygen sites. The MnOx/CeO2-SOSI shows the MnOx mode at 656 cm1, which has a shift compared with the conventional manganese oxide less than 640 cm1 (Figure S32 in the Supporting Information); this should be due to the existence of oxygen defects in the amorphous MnOx layers and the strong interactions between the amorphous MnOx and CeO2. (40,48) (40,48) When propane was introduced (Figure 5a), the mode of MnOx was unchanged in position but remarkably decreased in intensity with a rise in the temperature (Figures 5a, S33a, and S34a). This phenomenon might be due to the primary interaction of propane with the MnOxCeO2 interfacial oxygen species, which is well consistent with the general knowledge that the CH bond in hydrocarbons easily reacts with the active oxygen on the interface with an asymmetric Coulomb interaction with Mn and Ce. (19,49) In this case, the reaction between the surface oxygen on the amorphous MnOx layer and propane was not a priority because the primary elimination of such oxygen species would cause the blue shift of the MnOx mode. (50) Feeding propane to MnOx/SiO2 led to a blue shift of the MnOx mode from 638 to 648 cm1, because of the interactions between propane and the active surface oxygen of MnOx (Figure S35 in the Supporting Information). The temperature-programmed test for a longer time at a higher temperature (e.g., 400 C) could eliminate the MnOx modes on both MnOx/CeO2-SOSI and MnOx/SiO2. This phenomenon might be due to the elimination of both the oxygen species through reacting with the hydrocarbon species including propane and the dehydrogenated product, which destroyed the MnOMn stretching. (50,51) Interestingly, switching the feed gas to oxygen easily regenerated the MnOx mode of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI at 660 cm1 with a blue shift compared with the as-synthesized catalyst (Figure 5a), suggesting the dominant regeneration of the interfacial oxygen rather than the surface oxygen of the MnOx layer, in good agreement with the EPR results that the SOSI stabilizes the oxygen-deficient MnOx layer (Figure 2a).
Figure 5
Figure 5. In situ Raman characterization and time-of-flight (ToF) mass spectra. In situ Raman spectra of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in (a) propane and (b) propene feed gas under controlled conditions. Test conditions: MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst; 0.1 MPa; room temperature to 400 C; feed gas involving 10 vol % C3H8/He (20 mL/min), 20 vol % C3H6/N2 (10 mL/min), or 20 vol % O2/He (10 mL/min). The temperature-dependent Raman spectra were recorded after treatment for 30 min under each condition. ToF mass spectra of the reactions of (c) mass-selected MnCeO4+ with C3H8 for 5.0 ms and (d) mass-selected MnO2+ with C3H8 for 1.1 ms. The label +X denotes MnCeO4X+ (X = C2H4 or C3H8). The peaks containing water molecules are due to reactions with the residual water in the ion trap.
Introducing propene to the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst led to a red shift in the Raman mode of MnOx from 656 to 652 cm1 (Figure 5b), which is different from the phenomenon observed in the propane case. This might be assigned to the fact that the nucleophilic CC group in propene favors to react with the oxygen-deficient Mn rather than O sites, in good agreement with the phenomenon in the literature. (18,52) High temperature reduced the MnOx mode at 652 cm1, suggesting the removal of oxygen species on layered MnOx to form Mn sites with more oxygen defects (Figures S33b and S34b in the Supporting Information). (50,51) Such a feature benefits the stabilization of propene on the Mn sites due to the lack of active oxygen species coordinated to them. Under the equivalent treatment over the MnOx/SiO2 catalyst, the MnOx mode took a blue shift from 638 to 646 cm1 (Figure S36 in the Supporting Information), suggesting that of the propene interacted with oxygen sites rather than Mn. (50) The propene on oxygen sites of MnOx/SiO2 catalyst was easily oxidized, as confirmed by the fast disappearance of the MnOx mode at 646 cm1 at 50 C (Figure S37 in the Supporting Information).
According to these results, it was proposed that different reaction regions exist on the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst, including the propane activation on the interfacial oxygen sites and propene stabilization on the oxygen-deficient Mn sites. Specifically, propane was activated on the interfacial oxygen species to form propene. Both the propane and propene could be overoxidized by the interfacial oxygen of MnOCe and the surface oxygen of MnOx layers (MnOMn) of the as-synthesized MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst at the beginning of the reaction, forming oxygen-deficient MnOxCeO2 interfaces and MnOx layers (pathway I). The interfacial oxygen can be easily regenerated (pathway II-i), while the oxygen defects on MnOx layers are stabilized by the SOSI to hinder the oxygen regeneration (pathway II-ii) under the ODHP conditions, which is further confimed by the XPS analysis (Figure S38 in the Supporting Information). This feature is similar to that of the oxygen-deficient two-dimensional vanadium oxide layers and the isolated vanadium sites on solid carriers. (4244) In the subsequent propane dehydrogenation, propene, which might be as-formed on the interface, can be significantly stabilized by the oxygen-deficient Mn sites because of the favorable interaction between Mn2+ sites and the nucleophilic CC group (Mn2+CC, pathway III). (18,52) The lack of active oxygen on these Mn sites could efficiently hinder the overoxidation.
These results might explain the simulataneously high activity and propene selectivity of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in ODHP.
Pathway I: overoxidation
Pathway II: oxygen regeneration
Pathway III: ODHP and propene stabilization
The gas-phase mass spectrometry provided further evidence at the molecular level on the proposed active sites of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI. Using atomic clusters to investigate the nature of active sites is a quite useful methodology, which has been extensively used for a mechanistic understanding of a catalytic process by reacting the gaseous reactants, such as alkanes, with clusters containing the surface/interface information of the solid catalysts. (5355) In our tests, the MnCeO4+ and MnO2+ clusters were bombarded from the surface of MnOx/CeO2-SOSI and MnO2 samples (Figure S39 in the Supporting Information) and then efficiently cooled by supersonic expansion of pulsed carrier gas. Figure 5c shows the generation of MnCeO4C3H8+ (m/z = 303) and MnCeO4C3H6+ (m/z = 301) species when propane is reacted with MnCeO4+ in the reactor, which are assigned to the propane adsorption and propene formation, respectively. Additionally, MnCeO4C2H6+ and MnCeO4C2H4+ also exist as minor products, suggesting the formation of ethane and ethene from the propane/propene cracking (Figure S40 in the Supporting Information). The detectable MnCeO2+ species (MnCeO2+ and MnCeO2C3H8+) might be from the reduction of interfacial oxygen on MnCeO4+ by propane.
To compare with the MeCeO4+ cluster, the reactivity of MnO2+ toward C3H8 was also investigated. As shown in Figure 5d, MnC3H8+ and MnO2C3H8+ are the major species, but no propene-related product can be found. Therefore, bare MnO2+ cannot produce propene when reacting with propane. The low activity might be due to the low coordination of Mn to O in the cluster, which is different from that of the MnO2 catalyst (MnO6 units) with abundant oxygen coordinated to Mn. These gas-cluster reactions further support the condensed-phase conclusion about the important role of active interfacial oxygen in propane activation and dehydrogenation.
When propene (C3H6) was introduced into the reactor, six possible neutral products were observed on MnCeO4+, which are C3H6O2, C3H6O, C3H5O, CO2, CH2O, and CO (Figures S40 and S41 in the Supporting Information), accompanied with the formation of abundant MnCeO2+ with reduced oxygen. This phenomenon might be due to the high activity of the interfacial oxygen species that oxidized the hydrocarbons. In contrast, Mn(C3H6)+ and Mn(C3H6)2+ were observed in the reaction of MnO2+ with propene (Figures S40 and S41 in the Supporting Information) without other oxidative products, indicating the strong affinity of propene to the oxygen-deficient Mn species to hinder the overoxidation, in good agreement with the catalytic data (Figure 3) and Raman results (Figure 5a,b). These results decidedly confirm the important role of the interfacial oxygen species in activating propane and the oxygen-deficient Mn sites to stabilize propene, which contributes to the high activity and selectivity of the MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst in the ODHP reaction.
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, we have demonstrated a persuasive methodology for turning manganese oxide from a combustion catalyst into a selective catalyst for ODHP (Figure S42 in the Supporting Information). By the construction of manganese oxide with amorphous and layered structures on the ceria matrix, the obtained MnOx/CeO2-SOSI catalyst modulates surface oxygen to hinder the overoxidation of propene on the oxygen-deficient Mn sites. The SOSI, which stabilizes the oxygen-deficient Mn species under the ODHP conditions, displays the crucial role for realizing the unusual performances, which even outperform the practically promising vanadium oxide catalysts. Such a study also benefits understanding the structurecatalytic performance relationships on the well-defined metal oxide nanostructure. We believe that strategy might open a new way for developing selective metal oxide catalysts in ODHP in the future.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 