I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Response of Plants Water Use Efficiency to Increasing Atmospheric CO2 Concentration
Abstract
This study assesses plants adaptation to the elevated atmospheric CO2 concentrations (ca) using 83 tree-ring δ13C series from the mid- to high-latitudes of the northern hemisphere. We found that the variation of Δ with the atmospheric CO2 concentration is nonlinear and that the range of Δ change is relatively small. After 1950, the mean increase in Δ is 0.43, corresponding to the average coefficient of Δca relationship to be about 0.006/ ppmv CO2. In contrast to the changes in Δ, intercellular CO2 concentration (ci) and intrinsic water-use efficiency (Wi) both increase linearly with ca. For the past two and a half centuries, changes in the intercellular CO2 concentration (ci) and intrinsic water-use efficiency (Wi) are, on average, both about 30%, while the mean change of the ci/ca ratio is 3%. Most changes have occurred after 1950. Wi responds to ca linearly with sensitivities ranging from 0.06 to 0.6 μmol CO2/mmol H2O ppmv1, and an average 0.33 μmol CO2/mmol H2O ppmv1 during the past 50 years. Statistical analysis shows that the increase in ca accounts for 98% of the Wi variation. The remaining small variance is explained by altitude and temperature. Trees at higher elevations show slightly higher increase in Wi, and they are also more sensitive to the CO2 increase than trees at lower altitudes. Trees growing at low temperature environments are slightly more sensitive to CO2 increase than those at higher temperature sites. No significant relationship between precipitation and plants Wi response to the atmospheric CO2 increase is found with these data. Although the temperature and altitude both impact the Wi response to elevated CO2, the size of the impact is physically small and can be omitted from ecological models.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
1 Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Intrinsic water-use efficiency of plants (Wi, μmol CO2/mmol H2O) quantifies the amount of carbon assimilated per unit cost of water. (1) This feature of plants controls the balance between water use and carbon assimilation of plants, and is strongly related to the carbon cycle, hydrological cycle, and energy balance of the earth. There has been a large body of work showing that intrinsic plant water-use efficiency increases with increasing concentration of atmospheric CO2. (2-8) This conclusion has strong implications for quantifying the effects of terrestrial carbon sequestration and plant transpiration under the condition of continuously increasing anthropogenic CO2.
With few exceptions, most of the previous studies are limited to a few geographic regions, and it is not clear how the Wi response to the atmospheric CO2 increase distributes around the globe or on a continental scale. In addition, less attention has been given to assessing whether the plant response to the atmospheric CO2 differs as a function of environmental variables, such as temperature, precipitation amount, and altitude. One would expect interactions between the CO2 concentration and other environmental variables, and joint effects on the plant water-use efficiency might be different from the effect of CO2 concentration alone. However, these interactions can be quite complicated and difficult to predict; even the sign of response remains uncertain. For example, one would expect that plants growing under a dry climate should benefit from the CO2 increase more than those growing under a wet climate, and thus the assimilation rate A would increase more in response to CO2 in a dry climate than a wet climate. Although some plants display a decrease in stomatal density of leaves with increasing ambient CO2 concentration, (9-11) for most plants, stomatal density of leaves generally stays unchanged, (12, 13)causing gH2O constant, and thus Wi, to increase. However, it is not clear whether there is difference in response of stomatal density to elevated atmospheric CO2 concentration under dry or wet climate conditions. Similar uncertainties or lack of knowledge applies to temperature effects. (14) In this work, we approach this question empirically by using carbon isotope discrimination (Δ) of tree rings based on the premise that variations in Wi can be inferred from variations of the Δ of tree rings. (15, 16)
Eighty-three tree-ring δ13C time series were obtained from the literature, and elevation, temperature, and precipitation information was collected for each tree-ring series. We address two questions. First, what is the distribution in the rate of increase in the plants intrinsic water use efficiency, Wi? Second, how do environmental conditions, such as temperature, precipitation, and elevation, affect the rate of change in Wi? For each carbon isotopic tree-ring series, we extract long-term change of Wi and the rate of its change with time, and then compare these changes with the atmospheric CO2 concentration record and local environmental variables using multiple regression.
2 Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1 Definitions and Basic Equations
Stable carbon isotopic ratio of natural materials is expressed in the δ-notation:
(1)
where the standard is the carbon dioxide obtained from the Peedee belemnite (PDB) limestone. (17) The carbon isotopic discrimination (Δ) in plant leaves associated with the carbon fixation of C3 plants was derived by Farquhar et al. (18) as
(2)
where Δ is defined by the following equation:
(3)
The parameter a (= 4.4) (19) is the carbon isotopic discrimination caused by the slower diffusion rate of 13CO2 in air compared to that of 12CO2, and b (= 27) (20) is the discrimination of carboxylation by RuBP (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate) carboxylase against 13CO2. The variable ca is the concentration (mixing ratio, μmol CO2/mol air, or ppmv) of atmospheric CO2, and ci (ppmv) the CO2 concentration in the intercellular space of plant leaves. δ13Cplant and δ13Cair are the δ13C values of plants and CO2 in the ambient air. Equation 2 states that Δ is linearly related to the ratio of ci to ca. This equation is sometimes referred to as the linear form, which does not consider the factors such as contributions of mesophyll conductance and photorespiration to the net 13C discrimination. However, for the purpose of this work, it is adequate to use the linear model because we are more interested in the temporal change of given tree-ring series where the local environmental condition is largely fixed. In such a case, we consider that contributions of mesophyll conductance and photorespiration to the temporal δ13C change are either constant or much less significant compared to the trees response to the CO2 concentration increase. If under different climate conditions these contributions vary, and they cause the trees to respond to CO2 differently, the effect would be seen when the data are analyzed for the responses to the interacting effects of CO2 concentration and environmental variables.
Equation 2 describes the isotopic discrimination between the atmospheric CO2 and leaf biomass of plants, and it is not strictly applicable to stem wood that has an isotopic shift from the leaf material. However, since we are mostly interested in the relative change of δ13C with time, the result will be the same as long as the isotopic difference between leaf biomass and stem cellulose (compound commonly analyzed for tree-ring carbon isotopic ratios) for the same tree is constant. In this work, we consider this assumption valid.
From eq 3, the ci/ca ratio is related to Δ by
(4)
The intrinsic water-use efficiency (Wi) is given by Ehleringer and Cerling (1) as the following:
(5)
It can be seen from eqs 4 and 5 that ci/ca links Δ and Wi, so Wi can be inferred from Δ. Equation 5 indicates that when ci/ca ratio remains constant, Wi is linearly related to the CO2 concentration of the atmosphere, which is the physical basis for temporal increases in Wi indicated by many trees-ring isotopic series. However, changes in Wi are also related to changes in ci or in the ci/ca ratio, which is dependent on ca and may also change due to the dependence of ci on environmental variables (relative humidity, temperature, etc.).
2.2 δ13C Tree-Ring Time Series
The δ13C tree-ring time series used for this work are collected from published literature. The geographical distribution of the series is shown in Figure S1 in the Supporting Information (SI). We did not have particular criteria for selecting the sites to include or exclude as long as data were reported as time series. However, we may have missed papers containing relevant data. If this is the case, we apologize and note that it was not done for scientific reasons. Information on each series, including location, species, and climate is provided in (Table S1). A total of 83 series of 32 species are included in this study, among which 69 series are from 24 coniferous species and 14 series are from eight broad-leaved species. All series, except two, are from the northern hemisphere. As shown in Figure S1, most locations are clustered in temperate and colder regions of the northern hemisphere, with latitudes ranging from 23 to 70. Due to lower frequency of clear annual rings, tropical trees are under-sampled for isotopic studies, and are therefore a minor contributor to this analysis. Altitude of the tree sites ranges from near sea level to 3800 m. The climate data are obtained either from the original literature or from climate information in nearby towns or cities. The climate conditions range from temperate to polar tundra in temperatures, i.e. the mean annual temperature varies from 14 to 24 C. Annual precipitation ranges from 80 to 2700 mm, representing arid to humid environments. In several papers where trees from a number of subsites were reported and climate data were available at fewer points within the sampled area, temperature of each subsite is estimated from the kwn station(s) corrected by elevation using the lapse rate of 6 C/km, and if possible, precipitation is interpolated/extrapolated to all subsites. Since precipitation varies locally, the temperature assignment to each time-series is generally more robust than the precipitation values. Each time-series is either from a single tree or an average of a group of trees at a given site. The information of a number of trees per series is also included in Table S1. All δ13C data are from cellulose extracted from wood. Some authors reported isotopic values for cellulose from complete rings while others are from latewood only. Although latewood is considered to record the climate information more accurately, (21, 22) we did not segregate data. We consider sampling option to have no effect on low-frequency isotope variations. However, we provide information of sampling method used from each source in Table S1.
At a given site, we are searching for the change in Δ and consequently Wi that is caused only or predominately by changing carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere. Since the CO2 concentration has been increasing smoothly (after filtering out the seasonal variations) for the past 200 years, we consider that only the low-frequency variations in the tree-ring δ13C (δ13Cplant) of a given series represent the signal of the plants response to CO2. To this end, we have adopted the method by Feng (6, 16) to obtain the long term changes of Δ for each tree-ring series. The smoothing technique varied from one tree to another depending upon the shape of the δ13Cplant(t) function. Some are best represented by straight lines, others by second-order polynomial or exponential functions, and still other by cubic spline functions. Examples of each of these cases are shown in Figure S2. We note that this filtering procedure cannot remove effects of other environmental or climatic factors that also varied at low frequencies. We will discuss potential effects of these factors later in this paper.
The resulting smooth curves of δ13Cplant allow calculation of trends of Δ with eq 3, ci and ci/ca ratio with eq 4, and Wi with eq 5, using values of ca and δ13Cair in these calculations as described below.
2.3 ca and δ13C of the Atmospheric CO2
Both the atmospheric CO2 concentration and its δ13C values have been changing exponentially since the industrial revolution. For the CO2 concentration, data before 1955 are measurements of the air extracted from ice cores at Law Dome, Antarctica. (23, 24) Data from mid-1955 to the beginning of 1958 are derived from measurements in the western United States. (25) From 1958 to 2007, the annual mean values of Mauna Loa are used (www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/ccgg/trends/).
The δ13C values of CO2 separated from air bubbles in ice core samples provide a record of the atmospheric CO2, δ13Catm, between 1744 and 1953. (26) Direct measurements of the δ13Catm are available for 1956, 1957, (24, 26, 27) and between 1978 and 1988. (28) From 1988 to 2002, the δ13Catm values of Mauna Loa are used (http://cdiac.ornl.gov/ftp/trends/co2/iso-sio/mlo.dat). Since there are significant data gaps and scatter, we fit the data into an exponential curve to obtain a smooth function of δ13Catm with time (t, calendar year) for the long-term change. The best-fit curve is (r2 = 0.97)
(6)
In all of our calculations, it is assumed that δ13Cair equals δ13Catm.
3 Results
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1 Variations of Δ
The variations of Δ as a function of time and ca for all individual series are shown in Figure 1a and 1b, respectively. The shape of the Δ change is quite variable; there are no consistent functional forms (unlike ci and Wi as a function of ca, see Sections and ). However, the range of the Δ change is rather small. After 1950, the range of the Δ is smaller than 1 for 80 out of 83 tree series with the mean value of 0.43. The ratio of ci/ca is linearly related to Δ by eq 4; 1 and 0.43 changes in Δ translate to 0.04 and 0.02 units of change in the ci/ca ratio, respectively. Using 0.5 as the average ci/ca ratio, these changes represent an 8% and 4% of change in the ci/ca ratio since 1950.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Variations in carbon isotopic discrimination (Δ) with year (a) and the atmospheric CO2 concentration (ca) (b).
The broad-leaved trees have, on average, higher Δ values, as well as greater variations of Δ, since 1950 than conifer trees (p < 0.05). The Δ range for the broad-leaved trees is 0.63  0.11 (1 SE), and 0.39  0.4 (1 SE) for conifer trees. This means that the broad-leaved trees have experienced a greater ci/ca variability than conifer trees. This difference has implications for different responses of ci and Wi to the ca increase (see and ). We note that there are only 14 broad-leaved tree-ring series compared to 69 conifer series. Although the differences we describe in this article are statistically significant, confirmation should be made using a larger data set of broad-leaved trees.
3.2 Variations in ci
In contrast to the reponse of ci/ca ratio to the rising atmospheric CO2, the response of ci is monotonic and more or less linear. Since CO2 concentration increase is exponential, most changes occurred after 1950 (ca  310 ppmv in 1950)(Figure 2). From 1950 to 2000, the ci increases range from 3.7 to 29% among different series, with the mean 14.5  0.5%. This percentage change is greater than the average percentage change in the ci/ca ratio (4%) described in . The ci increases for the broad-leaved trees (16.8  1.2%) are slightly greater than conifer trees (14.0  0.6%), but the difference is not statistically significant.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Variations of intercellular CO2 concentration (ci) with the atmospheric CO2 concentrations (ca).
Linear regressions of ci against ca using data after 1950 are significant for all series (p < 0.001). Only two series (FB-PG and ZHJ-E-CF1) show considerable curvature such that the ci to ca response tends to level off in the most recent 1020 years (19802000). There are six other series for which the linearly increasing trend of ci versus ca does not start until 19601970s, or more precisely the cis increase with ca accelerated over time. Both of these two groups of series are visible in Figure 2 where curves show convex or concave shapes. Figure 5b shows the distribution of regression slopes that range from 0.093 to 0.91 with the mean 0.46  0.02 (ppmvci/ppmvca). This mean value indicates that with each ppmv increase in ca, the ci increase is, on average, about half of the size, and the same sensitivity is maintained (for the most trees) for a wide range of CO2 concentrations. The broad-leaved trees experienced a significantly greater (p < 0.05) sensitivity (mean slope = 0.59  0.04) in the cis response to ca than the conifer trees (mean slope = 0.44  0.02). Overall, we conclude that with increase in ca, ci increases proportionally such that dci/dca is constant, and statistically the broad-leaved trees have a greater mean sensitivity.
3.3 Variation of Wi
Wi of most tree series has been increasing exponentially with time and linearly with the atmospheric CO2 concentration, ca, for the past two centuries. Figure 3 shows the Wi against ca for all series. From 1950 (ca  310 ppmv in 1950) to 2000, the range of the Wi increase is from 3.2 to 41 μmol CO2/mmol H2O, which represents a 3.6 to 38% change (mean = 18.4  0.6%). There is no statistical difference between broad-leaved (19.3  2.1%) and conifer (18.2  0.6%) tree types.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Variation of intrinsic water-use efficiency (Wi) with the atmospheric CO2 concentration (ca).
The sensitivity of Wi response to ca (dWi/dca) ranges from 0.06 to 0.57 μmol CO2/mmol H2O per ppmv ca with the mean 0.33  0.01 μmol CO2/mmol H2O per ppmv ca, respectively (Figure 6b). The broad-leaved trees experienced significantly weaker Wi response to ca than the conifer trees, having sensitivity values of 0.26  0.03 versus 0.35  0.01 μmol CO2/mmol H2O per ppmv ca.
The linear relationship between Wi and ca suggests that the rate of change in Wi (dWi/dt) is controlled by the rate of CO2 concentration increase (dca/dt). We also test if dWi/dt is also associated with other environmental factors such as temperature, precipitation, and altitude. To do this analysis we first obtained the rate of change in Wi (dWi/dt) for each tree-ring series at the beginning of each decade (1750, 1760, ..., 2000), and then conducted multiple regression of dWi/dt against the rate of CO2 concentration change (dca/dt), as well as temperature, precipitation, and elevation of the tree sites and their cross terms with dca/dt. The results are shown in Figure 4 and Table 1. If the regression is conducted using data after 1950, the result is the same except for minor differences in coefficients.
Table 1. Results of the Multiple Regression
termcoefficient estimatestd errort ratioprob > t
intercept3.00 × 1020.92 × 1023.260.0012a
dca/dt (ppmv/yr)0.3040.006844.76<.0001a
elevation (m)1.45 × 1053.2 × 1064.50<.0001a
temperature (C)6.36 × 1044.9 × 1041.300.1930
precipitation (mm)1.813 × 1065.57 × 1060.330.7448
(dca/dt  0.50761) (elevation  1506.91)2.61 × 1056.4 × 1064.09<.0001a
(dca/dt  0.50761) (temperature  5.68333)1.67 × 1031.0 × 1031.670.0962
(dca/dt  0.50761) (precipitation  738.213)1.13 × 1051.3 × 1050.890.3744
aStatistically significant.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Graphical illustration of the multiple regression results. (a) Actual dWi/dt versus the dWi/dt value predicted by eq 7. (b) Leverage plot (29) for the effect of dca/dt. (c) Leverage plot for the effect of elevation. (d) Leverage plot for the effect of dca/dt × elevation. Statistical significance of each factor is shown in the label of the horizontal axis. Dashed lines represent the mean level of dWi/dt..
The overall regression is highly significant (p < 0.0001), and explains 66% (R2) of the total variance (Figure 4a). The CO2 concentration change, dca/dt, is by far the most important variable driving the changes in the water use efficiency, dWi/dt. In addition to the CO2 effect, the effects of elevation as well as the cross product of dca/dt by elevation are also statistically significant (p < 0.0001), although the magnitudes of the effects are small (see below). The effects of temperature and precipitation, and their cross products with dca/dt are not statistically significant; although the effect of temperature cross dca/dt is marginally significant (p = 0.096) with a negative coefficient. This suggests that the Wi increase at a low temperature site has a greater sensitivity to the CO2 increase than at a higher temperature site.
We note, however, that within the total variance explained by the model, 98% is explained by the CO2 (dca/dt) increase alone, and other terms, even those whose effects are statistically significant, are much less important physically. If we remove temperature and precipitation as independent variables, and regress dWi/dt as a function of dca/dt, elevation and their cross term, we obtain the following results:
(7)
The R2 (0.66) of this regression is almost as good as the previous one, because variables removed from the regression analysis do not significantly contribute to the power of the model in explaining the variations of the dependent variable. Using eq 7, the sensitivity of dWi/dt to elevation would be
(8)
Equation 7 means that the sensitivity of the rate of Wi change to elevation depends upon the rate of CO2 increase. In 1950 and 2000, dca/dt is 0.55 ppmv/yr and 1.87 ppmv/yr, respectively. These rates yield 0.015 and 0.052 μmol CO2/mmol H2O yr1 km1 as the sensitivity of dWi/dt to elevation for 1950 and 2000, respectively; the sensitivity increased significantly from 1950 to 2000. In comparison, the sensitivity of dWi/dt to dca/dt is on the order of 0.3 μmol CO2/mmol H2O yr1 per ppmv/yr, which is on average 10 times as great as the Wi response to a 1 km change in elevation during the same time period.
4 Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
4.1 Response of ci and Wi to ca
McCarroll et al. (30) proposed two kinds of plants responses to rising CO2: passive and active responses. In the case of the passive response, the plant does not alter either photosynthesis or stomatal conductance, and the increment of ca equals that of ci, i.e. the value of ca  ci keeps constant, or dci/dca = 1, resulting in an increase in the ci/ca ratio but a constant Wi. In the case of active response, plants modify photosynthesis and/or stomatal conductance such that ci/ca remains constant, and consequently, Wi increases. In other words, this model means dci/dca = 1 for passive response, and dci/dca = (ci/ca)0 (the original ci/ca ratio before CO2 increase) for active response. Previous work has repeatedly shown increases in water-use efficiency of C3 plants, indicating that most plants response to the CO2 concentration increase is not passive. There is a third possible end member, which is that ci stays constant. In this case, dci/dca = 0, and Wi experiences the maximum rate of increase. Mathematically, this situation would be described as no response of ci. However, in reality, to keep ci constant requires very active adjustment against increasing concentration gradient of CO2 diffusion from the air into the leaves. Therefore, we will not use no response to describe this condition, but refer it to as constant ci response. We suggest this end member to reflect an even more active response than the one defined by McCarroll et al. (30) (i.e., dci/dca = (ci/ca)0).
To make the following discussion convenient, we define
(9)
Thus for a passive response ϕ = 1, for an active response ϕ = (ci/ca)0, and for a constant ci response ϕ = 0.
Among the tree-ring series we studied, the value of ϕ ranges from 0.09 to 0.9. Figure 5a provides a graphical illustration for passive, active, constant ci, and the observed responses. The active response is one example assuming (ci/ca)0 = 0.5. Figure 5b shows the distribution of ϕ values of all series. Four series are highlighted with a darker shade representing that their responses to ca are active such that dci/dca = (ci/ca)1950 (ci/ca ratio in 1950), as defined by McCarroll et al. (30) More precisely, their ϕ values are not significantly different (p < 0.05) from their corresponding (ci/ca)1950. This result tells us two things. First, there is only a small set of trees (4 out of 83) that maintained the exact original ci/ca ratio of 1950 after that year. Each tree should correspond to a line of active response in Figure 5a. The active response line drawn in Figure 5a is an example that used 0.5 as the ci/ca ratio in 1950, which is the mean ratio for all trees. Second, the response of ci to ca is a continuous distribution between passive and constant ci responses with most trees showing relatively small changes in the ci to ca ratio. Figure 5c is the distribution of the intercept for the ci versus ca linear regression. When this intercept is zero, the tree series maintained the same ci to ca ratio as that of the 1950 level (there are 4 trees in this category highlighted in Figure 5b). Twenty-seven (33%) tree series have an intercept less than zero. These populations have a greater ci to ca ratio after 1950 than in 1950. In other words, their responses are within the active and passive types. The remaining two-thirds of the tree series have lower ci to ca ratios after 1950, indicating that the responses of these trees are between the active and constant ci types.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Responses of ci to ca. (a) Types of responses: passive, active, and constant ci. The active response shown is an example assuming (ci/ca)0 = 0.5. (b) Statistics (box plot) and frequency distribution (histogram) of ϕ (dci/dca for the time period after 1950). Four trees are highlighted in a darker shade in the histogram; their responses are active as defined by ϕ = (ci/ca)0. The box plot includes information of the mean and its 95% confidence interval (the diamond), the median (vertical line within the box), 25th and 75th quantiles (or quartiles, the left and right edges of the box), inter quartile range (length of the box), the outermost points within 1.5 of the interquartile range (dashed lines), potential outliers beyond the dashed lines (points), and the densest 50% of the data (brackets). (c) Statistics and frequency distribution of the intercept for the ci versus ca linear regression. The zero value indicates the active response. Intercept <0 corresponds to increasingly passive response, while intercept >0 increasingly active response. One third of the trees series have relatively passive responses (intercept <0, also see Figure 6b).
The response of ci as discussed above has an implication for how Wi responds to the CO2 increase (Figure 6b). From eq 5
(10)
or
(11)
For the ϕ range from 0.09 to 0.9, the response of Wi to ca would be from 0.6 to 0.06 μmol CO2/mmol H2O per ppmv change in ca. Figure 6a and 6b illustrate the types and distribution of Wi responses to ca. Highlighted with a darker shade are tree series whose responses are between passive (dci/dca = 1) and active (dci/dca = (ci/ca)1950) (n = 27). Clearly, the majority tree populations have very active (between dci/dca = (ci/ca)1950 and dci/dca = 0) responses, which results in relatively large increases in the intrinsic water-use efficiency (Figure 6b). In other words, two-thirds of the tree series show Wi increases more than that predicted by the active response model. No tree series approached the Wi level correspondent to constant ci response (0.63 μmol CO2/mmol H2O per ppmv, Figure 6b), although a few are close. Broad-leaved trees tend to be more passive than conifer trees.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Responses of Wi to ca. (a) Types of responses: passive, and constant ci. (b) Statistics and frequency distribution of dWi/dca for the time period after 1950. Tree series highlighted in the dark shade have relatively passive responses (intercept <0 in Figure 5c), and they experience relatively low increases in the Wi with increasing ca.
Waterhouse et al. (31) studied the response of Wi to increasing CO2 concentration from three species grown in northern Europe and found that, although Wi generally increased with CO2 concentration, the response is nonlinear. We consider no contradiction between our result and their result, because Wi in some trees in this study also showed nonlinear response to ca (Figure 3). Since Wi of most trees studied here responds positively to elevated CO2 levels, five types of physiological responses are possible: (1) A increases while gH2O stays constant; (2) A increases while gH2O decreases; (3) A and gH2O both increase, but A increases more than gH2O; (4) A stays constant but gH2O decreases; and (5) A and gH2O both decrease, but gH2O decreases more than A. Previous investigators have repeatedly observed that A increases with elevated CO2 concentration in air. For example, Gunderson and Wullschleger (32)analyzed leaf-level photosynthetic responses of 39 tree species grown in elevated concentrations of CO2 and reported an average photosynthetic enhancement of 44%. Eamus et al. (33) observed that CO2 assimilation rate of Maranthes corymbosa is higher under an atmosphere artificially enriched in CO2 (700 μmol mol1) than in the ambient CO2 atmosphere for a range of photon flux densities (01200 μmol m2 s1). Thus, the probability for (4) and (5) (A constant) is small. Since previous studies all have discovered that stomatal density and stomatal conductance remain stable (12, 13) or drop with elevated CO2 concentration, (9, 32-37) the third case (gH2O increases) is also unlikely. Therefore, the first and second cases (especially the first case) are most likely the mechanisms responsible for the physiological adjustment of plants to elevated CO2 concentrations. Although stomatal density and stomatal conductance generally stay unchanged or decrease with increasing CO2 concentration, the elevated CO2 level results in an increase in the absolute amount of CO2 diffusion into the leaves. If the net flux of inward CO2 transport is greater than the flux of CO2 fixation, ci increases. Figure 2 clearly indicates that ci linearly increased with ca, suggesting that the increase in the CO2 transfer to leaves has been greater than the increase in the rate of CO2 fixation in response to the elevated CO2 concentration. However, because of physiological adjustments either by increasing A, or by keeping gH2O stable or decreasing gH2O or both, almost all trees maintained a rate of ci increase that is less rapid than the increase in ca, i.e., ϕ < 1, and therefore, Wi increased.
In this study, we observe that conifer trees have lower carbon isotope discrimination than broad-leaved trees, and the observation is consistent with the finding of Brooks et al. (38) that δ13C values were significantly higher in Picea mariana and Pinus banksiana than in Populus tremuloides and Salix spp. Our observation is also in accord with the investigation of Marshall and Zhang who noted that evergreen trees discriminated against 13C less than deciduous trees in the Rocky Mountains. (39) These observations are likely caused the by fact that evergreen leaves have lower stomatal conductance relative to deciduous species. (40, 41) Our study also reveals that broad-leaved trees have greater sensitivities in the responses of ci and Δ to ca than conifer trees. The mechanism involving the difference remains unclear, and it may be related to the leaf anatomic structure. Conifer trees species have more developing cutin layer and deeper stomata than broadleaf trees.
4.2 Influence of Environmental Conditions on the Response of Wi to ca
Our study shows that, at a content rate of ca increase (dca/dt), high elevation sites would experience greater increases in Wi, while temperature and precipitation have no significant effects. In addition, interaction of elevation and dca/dt has a positive impact on dWi/dt; interaction of temperature and dca/dt has a marginal negative impact on dWi/dt; and interaction of precipitation and dca/dt does not show a significant correlation with dWi/dt.
Peuelas et al. (7) also observed that elevation exerts a significant impact on Wi increase with rising CO2 concentration. Over the entire period of their study (about 100 years), the Wi increases in the trees located in the higher and central altitudinal forest limits (HFL and CFA) were greater than those trees near the lower altitudinal forest limit (LFL). (7) The positive interaction of elevation and dca/dt on dWi/dt could involve several mechanisms. (1) At a high elevation, the CO2 partial pressure is lower relative to that at a lower elevation. Under the present atmospheric CO2 concentration condition, most plants, especially C3 species, are in CO2-starvation, (42, 43) and thus plants growing at higher elevations are subject to stronger CO2-starvation than plants at lower elevations. Consequently, increasing CO2 concentration could enhance photosynthesis of plants at a higher elevation to a greater degree relative to plants at a lower elevation, which would cause high-elevation plants to have greater increases in Wi. (2) With increasing elevation, leaf thickness and palisade layer thickness both increase, (44) which may also cause reduction in stomatal conductance and increase in CO2 starvation. This effect may add to the result of relatively high sensitivities of A in response to atmospheric CO2 increase, and thus greater Wi response in high elevation plants. (3) Wind velocity is often higher at higher altitudes than lower altitudes, although some researchers have thought that increasing wind velocity with elevation is not a global pattern (see review in Krner (45)). Increasing wind velocity results in reduction of the boundary layer, which causes enhancement of transpiration and stomatal closure, resulting in relatively low stomatal conductance. (44) This results in the same effect as in (2)higher sensitivities of high-altitude trees to CO2 increases. Most likely, the sensitivity of Wi to the CO2 increase results from improved CO2 assimilation rates at elevated CO2 levels. However, as we pointed out in the Results section, the elevation effect, although statistically significant, is small and physicallymuch less important compared to the effect of the CO2 increase.
The effect of the interaction between temperature and CO2 concentration on dWi/dt is very small, and only marginally significant statistically. The result suggests that Wi is less sensitive to the increase in CO2 for the plants at high temperature sites than those at low temperature sites. The mechanism of the temperature impact on the Wi response to ca could involve the following aspects. (1) Below the optimum for plant growth, photosynthesis increases with temperature, whereas above the optimum, photosynthesis decreases with temperature. (46) (2) Rising temperature and rising CO2 concentration generally both enhance photosynthesis, but the effect of interaction of elevated CO2 and elevated temperature on Rubsico activity may be negative. (47) Shaw et al. (48) reported that warming increased net primary productivity (NPP) of a California annual grassland, but elevated CO2 reduced the magnitude of warming enhancements in the third year of their field study. (2) Rising CO2 and rising temperature generally both result in decreases in stomatal density. (49-53) However, experiments showed that stomatal density did not decrease under the condition of +CO2 and +temperature as much as under the condition of +temperature alone. (53) Again we emphasize that regardless of previous observations and our statistically significant result, the effect of CO2  T interaction on Wi change is physically small.
The statistical analysis shows that precipitation as well as the interaction of precipitation with CO2 concentration increase do not relate to dWi/dt, suggesting that precipitation does not exert a significant role on the sensitivity of the Wi response to ca. There are possible interactions between precipitation and the CO2 level. Plants close stomata under water limitation, leading to a decrease in stomatal conductance and in photosynthesis. (42) Under such a condition, one would expect that plants response to CO2 increase might be more sensitive in dry than wet environments. Yet, we did not observe such an effect. This result suggests that the effects of precipitation + CO2 on changes in A and gH2O cancel out. To the best of our knowledge the effect of precipitation + CO2 interaction has not been studied, although our work indicates that such an effect would be small, if at all. In fact, for plant growth, the rainfall amount in season of plant growth is more important than absolute amount of precipitation, and we should analyze the effect of rainfall amount in season of plant growth on the sensitivity of the Wi response to elevated ca more. Unfortunately, the related precipitation data in season of plant growth of some regions are not available, thus, we have to give up the analysis. In addition, relative to rainfall, soilwater more directly affects plant growth, thus, effect of soilwater content should also be taken into account more. Based on the same reason above stated, we also have to abandon the consideration.
4.3 Possible Sources of Errors
To obtain the time function of δ13C, it was assumed that the long-term trend in Δ of tree-ring series is attributable only to the changes of δ13Catm and CO2 concentration (ca). However, any environmental and climatic factors that have long-term low frequency changes, such as temperature, precipitation, and N deposition, may also affect δ13C of tree-rings on time scales relevant to this study, consequently introducing error into the analysis. Some sources of error have been discussed by Feng, (6) and we focus mostly on new information reported in literature since then.
Although there are inconsistent reports about the effect of temperature on δ13C of plants, most studies showed that the effect is minor. The δ13CT sensitivity is small, generally varying between 0.2 and +0.2/C). (46) Recently, we have collected 291 samples of C3 plants (including herbs, shrubs and trees) along a temperature gradient which passed through eastern China with an annual precipitation of approximately 400 mm. (54) We found a significant positive correlation between δ13C and the annual mean temperature, but the δ13CT coefficient was only 0.104/C. If using 0.30.6 C for the trend of temperature change since 1860, (55) the contribution of temperature to the long-term discrimination of tree-ring series is negligible.
Another source of error is long-term changes in precipitation. It is well-known that precipitation affects plants δ13C values and the water-use efficiency. (56-58) Plants growing in dry environments typically have high levels of water use efficiency. Consequently, if for a given location there had been a long-term change in the amount of precipitation, the calculated changes in discrimination and Wi values also would not have been entirely due to the atmospheric CO2 change. However, unlike temperature that has an increasing trend at many locations for the past one or two centuries, there is no consistent long-term trend for precipitation either globally nor locally. (59) Precipitation amounts tend to be more variable, making it more difficult to identify trends. Therefore, even in few regions where precipitation does have a long-term trend, it contributes only to the noise of the analysis and should not significantly affect the results of the global Wi analysis of this work.
Nitrogen deposition has been steadily rising globally since the industrial revolution, (60) thus it may be a potential error source in the observed Δ and the computed Wi trends. The effect of nitrogen on Δ or ci may involve at least two foundational mechanisms. The first mechanism is that leaf nitrogen level is strongly positively related to the photosynthetic rate (A), (61, 62)primarily because the proteins of the Calvin cycle and thylakoids represent the majority of leaf N. Increasing nitrogen supply from nitrogen deposition may lead to a decrease or a reduced magnitude of increase in ci. The mechanism would cause the Wi to increase with increasing N deposition. The second mechanism is that leaf nitrogen can affect stomatal conductance. Schulze et al. (63) found a strong and positive correlation between stomatal conductance and leaf nitrogen. This mechanism, therefore, would result in a decrease in Wi with increasing N deposition. The isotopic studies of plants in response to N deposition have been inconclusive as to which of the two mechanisms is dominant. Hgberg et al. (64) observed a 1.4 decrease in the isotopic discrimination for pine needles after 2000 kg N/ha of nitrogen was added. Mitchell and Hinckley, (65) on the other hand, did not find any δ13C difference in Douglas-fir growing under high vs low levels of nitrogen supply. In a stimulated N deposition experiment recently carried out in Inner Mongolia grassland, we also found no influence of N deposition on the isotopic discrimination of two local dominant species, Agropyron cristatum and Leymus chinensis. (66) The matter is further complicated by the fact that increasing N supply may lead to increase in leaf area index (LAI), (42) which may change the lighting conditions and thus photosynthesis of a give plant. However, this effect, which has been shown to be significant for crops, (42) may not be significant for trees in natural forest because N amount in atmospheric deposition is far less than that in fertilizer added to crops. In conclusion, the effect of long-term trend of nitrogen deposition on the response of Wi to the elevated CO2 concentration remains uncertain, but is unlikely to be significant.
Air pollutants, such as ozone or sulfur dioxide, have been known to influence Δ values of plants. Pollution may affect the ci/ca ratios by inhibition of photosynthesis and/or plants adjustment of stomatal conductance. It has been observed (67) that the ci/ca ratio increases at low pollutant levels, but when pollution increases, the change of ci/ca ratio is more complicated, because stomatal closure and inhibition of photosynthesis affect the ci/ca in opposite directions. The net result depends upon which effect is dominant. Observations of δ13C of plants exposed to pollutants show both increase and decrease in δ13C values. (68-71) Fortunately, most trees in this study are far from cities, and the effect of air pollution on our analysis is likely to be small if any.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 