I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Propane dehydrogenation using catalytic membrane
Abstract
The present work is focused on the process of propane dehydrogenation using gas separation inorganic membranes with molybdenum (Mo) selective layer obtained by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method. Such membranes could be a valuable substitution for the present noble metal-coated membranes for dehydrogenation process. Being catalytically active and possessing gas separation properties at the same time. Mo-coated membranes could prevent from using granulated catalyst bed in membrane reactor. The maximum selectivity to propylene for Mo-ceramic membranes (Mo coated on ceramic support) was 63% (T = 853 K, conversion to propane 17%). The maximum selectivity to propylene for Mocarbon membranes (Mo coated on carbon support) was 84% (T = 853 K, conversion to propane 28%).
List of symbols
Mi
gas component molecular mass (kg kmol1)
P1, P2
shellside and tubeside pressures (kPa)
Pr
relative pressure ()
q
flow rate (kmol s1)
qf
feed rate (kmol s1)
Spropylene
selectivity to propylene (%)
Vr
reaction volume (m3)
Xpropane
conversion to propane (%)
y
concentration (%)
Greek letters
αi,j
binary gas mixture permselectivity ()
ideal permselectivity ()
Knudsen permselectivity ()
λi,j
permeability to gas component (kmol mm2 s1 kPa1)
θ
flow ratio ()
τ
residence time (s)
Subscripts
f
feed
p
permeate
r
retentate
1. Introduction
Nowadays olefins are widespread as the raw materials for a variety of chemical industries. This is the reason for never-ending interest towards intensification methods of olefins production during the last 60 years [1]. Commercially simple thermal naphtha cracking is not profitable for light olefins production for the present time because of the low yield to olefins on the one hand and growing exhaust of natural resources, which requires more thorough naphtha refinery, on the other hand. That is why among all the present methods catalytic dehydrogenation plays the leading role. Steam crackers (SC) and fluidized catalytic crackers (FCC) are the predominant source for olefins industrial production [1]. The thing is that light alkanes dehydrogenation is thermodynamically limited process, which leads to the well-known problems: low yield to olefins at low temperatures and coke formation with following catalyst deactivation at high temperatures. The dehydrogenation of propane is a typical example of such catalytic reactions, but it is the key step for producing propylene, a monomer for polypropylene [2]. In these reactions, the thermodynamic equilibrium conversions are less than 20% even at 500 C; therefore, the high temperatures and low pressures that produce the acceptable olefin yields often create technical complications and require expensive process equipment or specialized catalysts.
In fact high temperature catalytic membrane reactors (CMRs), which combine reaction and separation in a single unit operation, may solve the yield problems of equilibrium-limited reactions [2].
Only a few authors have reported on the problem of propane dehydrogenation in membrane reactors since 1993. The pioneering work in this field (except Bitter patent [6]) was made by Ziaka et al. [3], [4], then a few works of Weyten et al. [5] and Gobina and co-workers followed [7], and finally we can find Quicker et al. [8], a few Korean researches [2] and Hou and Hughes work [9] devoted to propane dehydrogenation in membrane reactors. The thing is that only palladium-coated membranes with Pt-catalysts (of course using different alloys) were mainly used in these works. Probably its impossible to avoid exploiting expensive Pd and Pt metals in light alkanes dehydrogenation reactions at all, but its necessary to drive forward to more cheap catalytically active metals which will diminish the cost of the membrane module and make the process less capital intensive. No reports on propane dehydrogenation in a catalytic membrane reactor were found. Nearly all the papers are devoted to the packed-bed or fluidized-bed membrane reactors (PBMR or FBMR according to Marcano and Tsotsis classification [10]). The catalyst bed increases membrane reactor overall dimensions, increases the resistance of the tubeside or shellside area and can probably increase the final cost of the process. From this point of view membrane with catalytically active selective layer prevents from using another granulated catalyst.
In this work, we tried to make the step in another approach to the membrane catalysis application for alkanes dehydrogenation reactions.
Propane dehydrogenation in a catalytic membrane reactor using composite Mo-based membranes is reported in this article. Such membranes could be a valuable substitution for the present noble metal-coated membranes for dehydrogenation process. Being catalytically active and possessing gas separation properties at the same time, Mo-coated membranes could prevent from using granulated catalyst bed in membrane reactor.
2. Experimental
2.1. Materials
Porous composite membranes with molybdenum selective layer were used in the experiments (Mo-ceramic and Mocarbon membranes). Ceramic α-Al2O3 microfiltration tubes with 7 mm in outer diameter and 7.5 cm in length and carbon microfiltration tubes with 10 mm in outer diameter and 7.5 cm in length were used as supports for membranes. Mo-ceramic and Mocarbon membranes were obtained using chemical vapor deposition method (CVD). This method can be successfully used for the layers deposition consisted of different compounds, even on rough or porous surface substrates. Morphology analysis and direct selective layer thickness measurements were carried out by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) see also [11]. Selective layer porous properties for a composite membranes used in the experiments are shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Mo-selective layer porous properties
Support Specific Mo-layer weight (g Mo/g support) Surface area (m2/g) Volume porosity (%) Average pore size (nm) Thickness (μm)
Ceramic 0.0371 1.30 4 10 57
Carbon 0.0192 85 75 12 58
Fig. 1, Fig. 2 show the surface and cross-section of obtained membranes. All the inevitable caverns on the support were covered with Mo layer (see Fig. 2).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. SEM-micrographs: (a) surface ×600 and (b) cross-section ×3000 of porous Mo-ceramic membrane.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. SEM-micrographs: (a) surface ×600 and (b) cross-section ×3000 of porous Mocarbon membrane.
The following gases and mixtures were taken for the experiments: hydrogen (99.999 vol.%), propane (99.000 vol.%), methane (99.950 vol.%), methanehydrogen mixture (60% of methane) and propanehydrogen mixture (80% of propane).
2.2. Unit for propane conversion experiments
The schematic representation of experimental rig is shown in Fig. 3. It consists of a feed gas delivery system, a high-temperature membrane reactor and a gas chromatograph. Reactor temperature was controlled by two thermocouples placed in preheating and reaction chambers. Permeate and retentate analysis was made separately using chromatograph 5.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Experimental for membrane catalysis. (1) membrane reactor; (2) electric heater; (3 and 4) coolers; (5) gas chromatograph; (6 and 12) needle valves for fine tuning; (711 and 13) throttle valves; (I) feed gas or gas mixture line; (II) permeate line; (III) retentate line. Control devices: FI, flow meters; TI, thermocouples; PI, pressure indicators.
Gas permeation and separation properties measurements for said Mo-coated membranes (see Table 2) were obtained and discussed in [12], [13].
Table 2. Gas separation properties for Mo-ceramic membranes [13]
Gas index Kn CH4H2 permselectivity
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
Knudsen diffusion (theoretical) Ideal (T = 650 C) Binary gas mixture (T = 650 C)
He 67 2.8 6.1 4.9
CH4 32
H2 130
2.3. Determination of catalytic activity of Mo-coated membranes and Mo-coated catalyst
All the catalytic measurements were detected only when the permanent reaction products concentrations were achieved under isothermal conditions. Values used in the present work:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Gas products were analyzed using chromatograph Tzvet-500 with thermo conductive detector. Carrier gashelium; adsorbentPorapak-Q (USA). Components were detected by coincidence of their retention time in chromatograph and retention time data components. Table 4 shows example of the conversion products identification. Carbon and acetylene were not detected.
Table 4. Example of products analysis in CMR (T = 853 K, feed flow rate 170 ml/min)
Flow index Product mol%
Permeate (flow rate = 146 ml/min) H2 29.1
CH4 1.6
C2H4 2.4
C2H6 1.4
C3H6 5.2
C3H8 60.3
100
Retentate (flow rate = 43 ml/min) H2 22.2
CH4 4.1
C2H4 3.6
C2H6 1.8
C3H6 6.5
C3H8 61.8
100
Judging our product analysis, mass balance (one example for T = 853 K is presented on Table 3), thermodynamic data analysis for the possible reactions under the working conditions, the following reactions can proceed in reactor module:
(R1)
C3H8  C3H6 + H2
(R2)
C3H8  CH4 + C2H4
(R3)
C2H4 + H2  C2H6
Reactions (R1), (R2), (R3) are possible both in gas phase volume (thermal conversion) and on the surface of composite Mo membrane (catalytic conversion). Decreasing the temperature will lead to reaction (R1) domination over reactions (R2) and (R3).
Table 3. Propane conversion mass balance (T = 853 K)
IN OUT
Reagents C (mol/s) H (mol/s) Products C (mol/s) H (mol/s)
C3H8 0.000302 0.000403 C3H8 0.000261 0.000348
H2 0.000023 C3H6 0.000026 0.000026
C2H6 0.000004 0.000006 C2H6 0.000005 0.000007
C2H4 0.000009 0.000009
CH4 0.000005 0.000010
H2 0.000034
Total 0.000306 0.000432 0.000306 0.000434
Catalytic properties of the support were evaluated using the standard method. The ground membrane sample (coated on ceramic or carbon support) with 0.8 mm average diameter and total mass 1.6 g was loaded in reactor. Then the sample was heated up to 800 K with 2 K/min rate in the presence of methanehydrogen mixture flow (flow rate 90 ml/min). After that the temperature was increased up to 900 K and ground membrane sample was kept for 60 min in the presence of hydrogen flow. This operation was made to obtain the Mo-carbides as reported in [14].
Gas phase propane conversion temperature dependence (gas-phase conversion) was studied in hollow reactor.
All experiments in catalytic membrane reactor were carried out at total feed shellside pressure 1.8 atm, while the tubeside pressure was maintained at 1 atm. Propanehydrogen mixture (with 20 vol.% of hydrogen) was used as a feed for propane dehydrogenation experimental modeling. The residence time (3 s) and dehydrogenation temperature interval (880960 K) were taking from [3].
Results of propane conversion achieved in CMR (conversion to propane X, selectivity to propylene S) were compared to reactor with ground membrane bed (conventional reactor). Before X and S determination the mass balance was fixed. Example of such balance is shown in Table 3.
3. Results and discussion
In membrane reactor reaction chamber two processes can take place simultaneously: chemical reaction and separation of products on the membrane. One can assume that the closer the catalyst is situated to the membrane, the more effective will be chemical reaction processes, taken place on the catalyst, as the products mass transfer through the catalyst bed is eliminated. In this way the case when the catalyst is fixed just on membrane will be more effective. The possible modes of this catalytic membrane can be illustrated by Fig. 4. One can see that carrying out both processes on the single surface can be achieved only when the catalyst plays selective layer role as well.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Catalytic membrane modes: (a) support + selective layer + catalyst layer; (b) catalyst layer + support + selective layer; (c) support-catalyst + selective layer; (d) support + selective layer-catalyst; (e) support + membrane impregnated with catalyst.
Recently we have realized that not only Mo, but the support origin can take part in light alkanes conversion process. Though the role of each above-mentioned constituent parts of composite membrane has not been practically determined. Needless to say that gas phase hydrocarbon conversion (without catalyst) can bring significant contribution to the total conversion process under high temperatures.
3.1. The influence of support and Mo selective layer material on conversion to propane and selectivity to propylene
As we have obtained Mo-ceramic membranes for the first time we had to prove the catalytic activity of Mo selective layer, deposited on the support.
Fig. 5 shows that conversion to propane increases with temperature rise. Maximum propane conversion was achieved in the experiments with Mo-ceramic catalyst (ground membrane) in comparison to propane conversion with the presence of ground ceramic support.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Conversion to propane vs. temperature. Reactor residence time 3 s; feed rate 170 ml/min; tubeside pressure 1.8 bar; shellside pressure atmospheric.
Conversion on the ceramic support practically can be defined as the sum of two processesgas phase conversion in the hollow reactor volume and on the ground support surface. Conversion on Mo-ceramic catalyst will be a result of gas phase, ceramic surface and Mo surface conversions. Thus, Mo layer contribution to the propane conversion can be calculated by subtracting X or S parameters for the conversion on the ceramic support from X of S obtained when using Mo-ceramic catalyst (as both experiments were carried out under the same conditions: temperature, pressure, granules size and loading mass, etc.)
Fig. 6 shows that obtained selectivity to propylene on Mo-ceramic catalyst exceeds selectivity obtained on the ceramic support.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Selectivity to propylene vs. temperature. Reactor residence time 3 s; feed rate 170 ml/min; tubeside pressure 1.8 bar; shellside pressure atmospheric.
Fig. 7 shows that selectivity to propylene for Mo layer remains practically constant in the temperature interval 880920 K with the following decrease under the higher temperatures. Conversion is steadily increasing in studied temperature interval. Data comparison depicted in Fig. 6, Fig. 7 indicates that coating ceramic support with Mo layer increase conversion to propane up to 3050% and selectivity to propylene to 3070% depending on process temperature.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Propane conversion and propylene selectivity of Mo layer (deposited on ceramic support) vs. temperature; specific Mo weight 0.0371 g Mo/g support. Reactor residence time 3 s; feed rate 170 ml/min; tubeside pressure 1.8 bar; shellside pressure atmospheric.
Above-mentioned data can be the evidence of Mo catalytic activity, coated on the ceramic support.
3.2. Propane dehydrogenation in CMR
Different works pay much attention to permselectivity. It is supposed that the greater is permselectivity the more effective will be membrane in catalytic process. The principle of widespread method of permselectiviy increase is to decrease an average pore size in the selective layer. But the other side of this method can be subsequent decreasing of membrane permeability (under the same pressure) or tubeside resistance increase (under the same permeate flow rate). It is worth mentioning that none of researchers gave any comments on this parameter selection in membrane catalysis process. Judging the main deductions from the thermodynamic analysis (for example, the necessity of carrying out light alkanes dehydrogenation under low pressures) one can predict the importance of using membranes with high permeability. That is why before the Mo membrane efficiency reveal, using different temperature regimes, we defined the flow ratio, under which the S and X could achieve the maximum values.
Fig. 8 shows that X and S achieve the maximum values when flow ratio equals approximately 0.3. This figure, obtained for chemical reaction and membrane separation coupling process, coincides with the optimum flow ratio taken for membrane separation (0.20.3). It is worth mentioning that during the study of separation properties of Mo-ceramic membranes using the binary mixture methanehydrogen the maximum permselectivity occurred only when the flow ratio equaled 0.28. This fact also coincides with abovementioned data.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. The effect of flow ratio on catalytic activity of Mo-ceramic membrane; T = 913 K.
When the flow ratio equaled 0 (the permeate line was closed) the gas mainly contacted with Mo layer; selectivity and conversion were very closed to S, X calculated for Mo layer (see Fig. 7). When the flow ratio equaled 1 these values were close to S, X for Mo-ceramic catalyst (see Fig. 5, Fig. 6).
It is difficult to predict membrane effect on the reaction selectivity and conversion using only gas permselectivity. That is why we additionally used Fig. 9, Fig. 10 to demonstrate Mo-membrane reactor advantage in comparison to conventional reactor with Mo catalyst.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Conversion to propane for Mo-ceramic CMR and packed-bed reactor. Reactor residence time 3 s; feed rate 170 ml/min; tubeside pressure 1.8 bar; shellside pressure atmospheric.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Propylene selectivity vs. temperature for packed-bed reactor and Mo-ceramic CMR. Reactor residence time 3 s; feed rate 170 ml/min; tubeside pressure 1.8 bar; shellside pressure atmospheric.
Fig. 9, Fig. 10 give the comparison of S and X for Mo-ceramic catalyst and Mo-ceramic CMR. The CMR S and X values exceeds there of for conventional reactor. The reason is the effect of shifting the equilibrium for propane dehydrogenatiom reaction by selective hydrogen permeance through the membrane (removing from the reaction volume). Fig. 11 shows that hydrogen concentration in permeate (including feed hydrogen concentration) increased more than 1.3 times. Propylene (having larger molecular mass) almost was not separating (for Mo-ceramic membrane and T = 853 K). When raising the temperature to 913 K, propylene concentration in retentate increases 1.75 times in comparison to permeate. These membrane separation properties can be explained using the reaction products permselectivity.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Hydrogen and propylene concentrations in permeate and retentate for Mo-ceramic CMR (left) and Mocarbon CMR (right)hydrogen feed concentration is included; T = 853 K. Reactor residence time 3 s; feed rate 170 ml/min; tubeside pressure 1.8 bar; shellside pressure atmospheric.
Fig. 12 shows Mo-ceramic membrane separation activity towards propane dehydrogenation products. The calculated Knudsen permselectivity is given for compare. Conversion products permselectivity and Knudsen permseiectivity are calculated using formulas (6) and (7).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. Mo-ceramic membrane permselectivity for different propane dehydrogenation products, T = 913 K.
It is worth mentioning that propane conversion products permselectivity for methanehydrogen pare (4.43) practically coincided with binary mixture permselectivity (4.90) (methanehydrogen) calculated earlier (see Table 2). Conversion products permselectivity for methanehydrogen (4.43) exceeds calculated Knudsen permselectivity (2.83). For other couples (hydrogen/ethaneethylen, hydrogen/propanepropylene fractions) conversion products permselectivities were lower, than calculated Knudsen permselectivity. One can suppose that the reaction products transport (except hydrogen) is the result of coupled Knudsen and surface diffusion. In this way the lower conversion products permselectivities can be explained by the surface diffusion influence prevail, which contributes to the component flow increase along the pore walls. This fact finally decreases permselectivity. The surface diffusion influence prevails for the components with large molecular masses, lowering their permselectivity as a result. Judging Fig. 12 permselectivities for propane conversion products (hydrogen/ethaneethylen and hydrogen/propanepropylene fractions) are lower than calculated permselectivities for Kn diffusion for above-mentioned fractions.
3.3. Mocarbon membranes
Ceramic support, being catalytically active for propane dehydrogenation process (as it was discussed earlier), possesses acid catalytic centers (Lewis acids), which can promote the hydrocarbon cracking process producing by-products and lowering selectivity to propylene. This was the main reason for changing the ceramic to carbon support (which does not posses such centers). Fig. 6 shows that the selectivity for carbon support exceeded ceramic in the entire studied temperature interval. Porous properties for Mo layer, coated on carbon support were much better than for Mo layer on ceramic support (porosity 75%, surface area 85 m2/g, see Table 1). The SEM study of Mocarbon membrane before and after high temperature treatment (T = 953 K, propane dehydrogenation) showed no significant changes in the selective layer structure, while dramatic changes (caverns, cracks, etc.) for Mo-ceramic membrane were found. One can suppose that Mo layer coated on carbon support will be more stable. Fig. 11 shows that separation values to hydrogen and propylene for Mocarbon membrane have obvious improvement over Mo-ceramic membranes.
These three advantages of Mocarbon membranes (absence of acid centers, selective layer thermal stability, porous properties advantages) must result in integral process values X and S. Fig. 13 shows comparison of S and X for Mo-ceramic and Mocarbon CMR. Obtained selectivity and conversion for Mocarbon membrane exceed Mo-ceramic thereof values.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. Conversion to propane and selectivity to propylene vs. temperature for Mo-ceramic and Mocarbon CMR. Reactor residence time 3 s; feed rate 170 ml/min; tubeside pressure 1.8 bar; shellside pressure atmospheric.
Thus, one can see how just the change of support can influence the membrane catalysis efficiency.
4. Conclusions
The importance of obtained results is not only in absolute values, which characterize dehydrogenation process in membrane reactor. The thing is that to influence the chemical reaction effectively, it is not necessary to achieve the perfect membrane permselectivity (using noble metals like Pd). Probably giving catalytic activity to the selective layer of membrane, achieving its maximum values (conversion and yields to the main products, high thermal stability, operating temperature decrease, etc.) will be the main trend in catalytic membranes technology development in the nearest future. Up-to-date development of methods, which can improve membrane separation properties provide its optimization in a way to obtain high productivity of composition catalytic membranes and membrane reactors. The optimum combination of gas and catalytic properties will lead to less capital intensive light alkanes processing technologies.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 