 <quotes>
1. The indirect synthesis of Sn-Beta involves two basic steps: (1) removal of Al atoms from the zeolite framework structure to generate the lattice defects, (2) incorporation of Sn atoms into the vacancies to form Sn containing zeolite [35], [36].

2. The incorporation of Sn species into Beta zeolite structure will definitely change the acid property of Beta zeolite and thus create some Lewis acid sites [61].

3.Further kinetic studies were performed on the optimized Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst at relatively low propane concentration with the conversion below 10%. 

4. No relevant quotes

5. TEM and STEM characterizations were carried out on a typical Sn-Beta-30 sample, in order to know the morphology and elemental distribution in its structure (Fig. 4, Fig. 5).

6. No relevant quotes

7. No relevant quotes

8. No relevant quotes

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1. The article describes an indirect synthesis technique to incorporate isolated single-site Sn atoms into zeolitic Beta frameworks. This involves dealuminating the zeolite with acid to create vacancies, followed by impregnating Sn precursors and calcining to insert Sn into the vacancies. 

2. Yes, the article evaluates Sn atom encapsulation in the zeolite framework for enhancing catalyst stability. Sn-Beta showed no deactivation over 72 hours on stream, while SnO2 clusters on the external surface deactivated rapidly. The isolated Sn framework sites have stronger anchoring.

3. The article investigates dealumination and impregnation methods to optimize Sn dispersion into isolated single sites in the zeolite framework.

4. No in-situ characterization of working propane dehydrogenation catalysts is presented.

5. Yes, TEM and STEM imaging mapped out uniform elemental dispersion confirming isolated single-site Sn atoms in the zeolite framework.

6. No X-ray techniques to probe oxidation states are utilized.

7. No evaluation of different reactor types is provided. 

8. The article only evaluates a fixed bed reactor setup for propane dehydrogenation.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1. 该文介绍了一种间接合成技术,以在分子筛Beta框架中掺入隔离的单位点锡原子。这涉及以酸处理分子筛以创建空位,然后浸渍锡前体并煅烧以将锡插入空位。

2. 是的,该文评价了在分子筛框架中封装锡原子以增强催化剂稳定性。Sn-Beta在72小时内无活性衰减,而外表面上的SnO2簇快速失活。锡框架位点具有更强的锚定作用。

3. 该文研究了脱铝和浸渍方法以优化锡扩散成隔离的单位点到分子筛框架中。 

4. 没有呈现丙烷脱氢工作催化剂的原位表征。

5. 是的,TEM 和 STEM 成像描绘了均匀的元素分散,确认了分子筛框架中的隔离单位点锡原子。

6. 没有运用X射线技术探测氧化态的变化。

7. 没有评价不同的反应器类型。

8. 该文仅评价了固定床反器在丙烷脱氢反应中的设置。

</Chinese version answer>
