I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Hydroxyl-Mediated Non-oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation over VOx/γ-Al2O3 Catalysts with Improved Stability
Graphical Abstract
Lending support: The effect of surface hydroxyl groups, on supported vanadium catalysts, on the activity of propane dehydrogenation is studied. Although surface OH groups slightly suppress its dehydrogenation activity, the catalyst stability is increased. DFT calculations confirm that the existence of OH groups block the exposed V3+, on which there is a strong tendency to form coke.
Abstract
Supported vanadium oxides are one of the most promising alternative catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and efforts have been made to improve its catalytic performance. However, unlike Pt-based catalysts, the nature of the active site and surface structure of the supported vanadium catalysts under reductive reaction conditions still remain elusive. This paper describes the surface structure and the important role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/ γ-Al2O3 catalysts under reaction conditions employing in situ DRIFTS experiments and DFT calculations. It is shown that hydroxyl groups on the VOx/Al2O3 catalyst (VOH) are produced under H2 pre-reduction, and the catalytic performance for PDH is closely connected to the concentration of VOH species on the catalyst. The hydroxyl groups are found to improve the catalyst that leads to better stability by suppressing the coke deposition.
Propylene is an important feedstock for manufacturing various products such as polypropylene, propylene oxide, acrylonitrile and phenol.1 Commercial production of propylene is mainly based on steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) of naphtha, light diesel and other oil byproducts.2 With the growing production of shale gas, the low price of propane makes the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process more commercially attractive for on-purpose propylene production.3 For the industrial PDH catalysts, the Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts are restricted by their high price tag and highly toxic nature, respectively.4 The supported vanadium catalysts can serve as an alternate because of its considerable activity, proper propylene selectivity and excellent regeneration performance.5 Great efforts have been made to study the surface structure of supported vanadium. The surface models for different V loading samples had been proposed and widely accepted.5c,5e,5f, 6 However, very few studies are concerned with the detailed structure of the surface VOx species under the reaction conditions. Many density-functional theory (DFT) studies have focused on the surface structure of supported VOx catalysts under oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) and found that the surface oxygen atom was the active site for the ODH reaction.7 For the nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation, the active sites and surface structure of the VOx species under reductive reaction conditions still remain elusive.
Herein, a VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalyst was synthesized by an incipient wetness impregnation method and the V loading is 6wt%, which is less than the theoretical monolayer V loading (12wt%) on γ-Al2O3.5a,5d The evolution process of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the catalyst under an H2 atmosphere was studied by in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS). It was found that the catalytic performance (including the initial activity and stability) of the 6V catalyst is closely connected to the VOH concentration, which is controlled by the H2 pretreatment time. The catalyst covered by hydroxyl groups, which mainly contains V4+ species throughout the reaction, exhibits a relatively low PDH activity but good resistance to coke formation. The fresh 6V catalyst, in contrast, is reduced to the V3+ species by C3H8 in a very short period of time at the beginning of the reaction and shows high initial PDH activity but poor stability on account of heavy coke deposition, and is in line with our previous study that V3+ is the most active site for propane dehydrogenation.5a DFT calculations are applied to simulate the PDH process on different reduced VOx structures, and the results coincide well with experiments. A surface model is built according to the experimental observations and DFT calculations. The hydroxyl groups have been proved to have a fundamental effect on the catalytic performance of the VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalyst for PDH reaction.
Catalytic tests were carried out at 600C on 6V samples that were pretreated with 28% H2/N2 for different periods of time (3120min) at the same temperature. As shown in Figure1a, the initial activity of the 6V catalysts decreased as H2 pretreatment time increased. Detailed propane conversion and propylene selectivity data versus reaction time are presented in FiguresS1 and S2 (see the Supporting Information). The propylene selectivity based on all products improved as the H2 pretreatment time increased, and is attributed to less coke formation considering the similar propylene selectivity based on gas-phase products. Apart from the initial activity, the H2 pretreatment time also affects the stability. Clearly, the catalyst with lower initial activity deactivates more slowly. We use the relative deactivation rate (the specific definition is shown in the experimental section in the Supporting Information) to quantitatively describe the stability of a catalyst as it varies with the H2 pretreatment time as shown in Figure1b.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)The initial conversion versus H2 pretreatment time. b)The relative deactivation rate versus H2 pretreatment time. c)DRIFTS profiles of 6V catalysts treated at 600C under a H2 flow for different time. d)The VOH relative intensity versus H2 pretreatment time.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Raman spectroscopy were used to characterize the surface structure of the fresh and H2-reduced 6V samples. As shown in FigureS3, no XRD diffraction peak of V2O5 is shown and all the detected peaks are attributed to the γ-Al2O3. FigureS4 presents the UV (325nm) Raman spectra of the fresh and H2-reduced 6V sample. A sharp band at about 1021cm1 is found on the fresh catalyst and its intensity evidently decreases after it is reduced by H2. According to previous studies, the band at 1021cm1 is attributed to V=O of the surface VOx species.8 It indicates that V=O is destroyed after H2 reduction. Moreover, for the visible Raman spectra (see FiguresS5 and S6), no band corresponding to V2O5 nanoparticles is observed, thus indicating that the catalysts are mainly covered by two-dimensional VOx species (monovanadates and polyvanadates).9
The effects of H2 pretreatment were further characterized by in situ DRIFTS experiments. The 6V sample was in situ reduced under a H2 atmosphere in the sample cell of a DRIFTS instrument, and the evolution of the surface species were monitored by the IR spectra. The DRIFTS profiles are shown in Figure1c. A broad band at 37002500cm1, which is attributed to H2O according to a previous study,10 appears at the very beginning of the reduction (3min), and its intensity gradually decreases as the reduction proceeding. Meanwhile, sharp bands at 3750, 3715 and 3660cm1 are observed and their intensities increase gradually, and are attributed to surface hydroxyl groups.11 Besides, a negative band is observed at 2040cm1 upon reduction by H2, and is attributed to V=O on the catalyst according to previous research.12 The negative peak indicates that the V=O structure is destroyed by the H2 reduction and this phenomenon agrees with the UV Raman results mentioned above. A HD exchange experiment was conducted on a pure γ-Al2O3 sample to distinguish the hydroxyl groups on the VOx species from that on the support. As shown in FigureS7, H2 treatment has no effect on the γ-Al2O3 surface, thus indicating that the hydroxyl groups on the γ-Al2O3 surface are saturated before the H2 treatment. However, after being treated with D2, negative peaks at 3750 and 3715cm1 appear and positive peaks rise simultaneously at 2769 and 2736cm1, which means that the H atom of the hydroxyl groups on the γ-Al2O3 is replaced by a D atom.13 Therefore, the IR bands at 3750 and 3715cm1 are attributed to hydroxyl groups connected to the support (AlOH), and the IR band at 3660cm1 is consequently attributed to the hydroxyl groups linked to the VOx species (VOH). The assignments of the IR bands are listed in TableS1. According to the experimental phenomenon, a scheme of the VOH evolution is proposed. The VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalyst is firstly reduced by H2, and the V=O structure on the outer most surface is combined with the adsorbed H2 molecules to form an adsorbed H2O, which is supported by the generation of a broad band attributed to H2O and a negative band led by V=O consumption. The H2 reduction experiment (see FigureS8) indicates that the H2 consumption process lasts only for the first 3minutes, which agrees the DRIFTS experiments. As the reduction process proceeds, the H atom gradually migrates from H2O molecules to an adjacent O atom (which could be any of three types of O in the V-O-V, V=O, or V-O-Al structure) to form hydroxyl groups connected to either a V or Al atom, which is proved by the fact that the growing intensity of the hydroxyl band is accompanied by the decrease in intensity of the H2O band. In addition, DFT calculations show that the H2O dissociation, to form surface hydroxyl groups over a γ-Al2O3-supported V2O5 cluster, is exothermic by 0.49eV with essentially no kinetic barrier, while its desorption is strongly endothermic by 1.37eV, thus indicating favorable H2O dissociation (see details in the Supporting Information).
The intensity of the VOH band is normalized by relative intensity (defined in the experimental section in the Supporting Information) to quantitatively describe the concentration of the hydroxyl groups on the VOx species. As shown in Figure1d, the relative intensity of VOH increases with the increasing H2 reduction time. Therefore, the catalytic performance, including initial activity and relative deactivation rate, are connected with the relative intensity of VOH throughout the H2 reduction time. As shown in Figure2, the initial activity (Figure2a) and relative deactivation rate (Figure2b) are found to be linearly related to the intensity of VOH band which represents the concentration of the hydroxyl groups on the VOx species.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)The initial conversion and b)the relative deactivation rate versus the VOH relative intensity.
Temperature-programmed surface reaction (TPSR) experiments were conducted to compare the intrinsic activity between the 6V catalysts with and without hydroxyl groups (see FigureS9). Before the reaction, the same 6V catalysts were pretreated at 600C under H2 atmosphere for 3 and 120minutes, respectively. The MS signals of C3H8, C3H6, H2, and H2O (m/e=44, 28, 2 and 18, respectively) were recorded and plotted. For the sample that was prereduced for 120min (see FigureS9b), the H2 and propylene signals start to rise at 395C, which is 40C higher than that for the sample with only a 3minute reduction, thus indicating that the intrinsic activity of VOH is lower than the VOx sites without hydroxyl groups.
Previous studies have shown that the main reason responsible for the deactivation of vanadium catalysts is coke deposition.14 Figure3A presents the DRIFTS profiles of a series of 6V samples after a 30minute reaction at 600C, among which the samples are pretreated with H2 for different periods of time (3120min). As expected, the intensity of the IR band at 3660cm1, which is attributed to VOH, increases along with the H2 pretreatment time. Meanwhile, after a 30minute reaction, an IR band at 1590cm1 appears for all tested samples. Our previous research showed that IR bands between 1620 and 1555cm1 resulted from coke deposits on VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, and the location of the peak herein falls well within the range.5a Therefore, the IR band at 1590cm1 is attributed to coke deposits on the 6V samples and its intensity represents the amount of the coke deposit. Clearly, the coke deposits more slowly on those catalysts covered with hydroxyl groups, and this is the reason why the catalysts with sufficient H2 pretreatment possess higher stability.
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
A)DRIFTS profiles of 6V/Al2O3 catalyst with a)3min, b)10min c)30min d)120min H2-pretreatment after 30min in situ reaction. B)DRIFTS profiles of fresh 6V/Al2O3 catalyst under a 28% C3H8/Ar flow at 600C for a)0.5min b)1min and c)60min.
Additional DRIFTS experiments have been conducted to tackle the surface structure of fresh 6V catalysts, that is, without the existence of surface VOH groups, under the reaction conditions. Figure3B shows the DRIFTS profiles of a fresh 6V sample during the reaction. As we can see, there is no hydroxyl group formed under C3H8 gases. As soon as the propane is directed into the sample cell, the IR bands assigned to gas-phase CO2 (2357 and 2315cm1) and CO (2181 and 2122cm1) grow rapidly. Meanwhile, a negative band corresponding to V=O appeared in a very short time (1min) and reached to a steady state, and its intensity is the same as that after a 60minute reaction. Therefore, under the reaction conditions, the surface oxygen atoms (including but not limited to the top-site oxygen) can be removed by C3H8, thus generating COx in a very short period of time. According to the oxidative dehydrogenation research on supported VOx catalysts, the most active site among the surface VOx species is the top-site oxygen (V=O), which can oxidize either propane or propylene into COx (CO2 or CO) easily. As a result, the oxygen atoms of the V=O sites on the fresh VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalyst are eliminated once the catalyst surface is exposed to C3H8, and no hydroxyl groups are formed in this process.
A higher V loading sample (12V) and lower V loading samples (4V and 1V) were also tested with the same method as the 6V sample, and similar results (see SectionS1.4) were obtained, thus indicating that the results were not a coincidence.
To further understand the relationship between the surface structure and catalytic performance, DFT calculations were performed. In the 6V/γ-Al2O3 sample, polymerized VOx exists according to our previous work.5a Thus, three γ-Al2O3-supported dimer V2OxHy models were constructed to represent the catalyst with different pretreatment methods (Figure4a): I: V2O5 represents the fresh catalyst; II: V2O5H2 (hydrogenating two surface V=O to VOH) stands for the catalyst with H2 pretreatment; III: V2O3 (removing the two top O atoms) describes the fully reduced catalyst, which is formed without top-site oxygen when directly exposed to C3H8. We also constructed trimer and tetramer models (see FigureS18) to represent the polymerized VOx and we found their activity is consistent with that of the dimer structure. Thus we believe that the dimer model is representative for the two-dimentional polyvanadates for this particular reaction.
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)Top- and side-view of the fresh (I), H2 pretreated (II and II-(R)) and fully reduced structure (III). color Scheme: Hwhite; Algreen; Vgray; Ored. b)Energy potential plot for the elementary path for PDH on three defined supported vanadium oxide surfaces.
Bader charge analysis indicates the V oxidation state follows the trend V2O5>V2O5H2>V2O3, and is consistent with the valence-state distribution of vanadium by XPS. As shown in the XPS profile (see FigureS15), the vanadium is a mixture of V5+, V4+, and V3+ after reduction and the fraction of each oxidation state calculated by peak deconvolution are listed in TableS2. Apparently, the catalyst reduced by H2 mainly shows the valence state of 4+, while the VOx species on the fresh catalyst is reduced to a lower valence state (mainly 3+) under C3H8.
As shown in Figure4b and TableS8, the highest dehydrogenation barrier, 1.98eV, was observed over V2O5H2, which is consistent with the lowest initial activity observed experimentally with the existence of a surface VOH group. Although it does not directly participate in the CH bond cleavage, the OH group still influences the dehydrogenation activity. Before the reaction, we found that the hydroxyl group is prone to diffusion, moving to the oxygen of the alumina support which is close to vanadium oxide cluster. At the same time, the second V-O-V bond is formed and is considered to be the actual active site (Figure4a, Structure II-R). The newly formed V-O-V is slightly less reactive than structure I (V2O5 cluster), whose first dehydrogenation barrier is 1.71eV. Interestingly, a much lower barrier, only 1.12eV, was observed over V2O3, thus indicating the highest dehydrogenation activity, and it is consistent with the TPSR result discussed above. The DFT calculations show that the binding strength of C3H6 over V2O3 is very strong (2.05eV). As we can see in Figure4b, compared with the surface with hydroxyl (Structure II), the C3H6 is more favorable for deep dehydrogenation to form C3H5 rather than desorption when located on the V2O3. Note that C3H5 is the model precursor of coke formation in our calculation. Therefore, the highly reduced V2O3 cluster, without V=O and VOH, prevents C3H6 desorption and promotes its dehydrogenation to form coke. In terms of the V2O5 (structure I), although it cannot bind C3H6 strongly, its dehydrogenation barrier is low compared with that of V2O5H2 (structure II). Therefore, V2O5 (structure I) can lose a top-site oxygen easily by forming acetone7f (see SectionS2.2.2 and FigureS31). Thus, when directly treating V2O5 (structure I) by propane, it is deprived of the top-site oxygens and thus facilitates the formation of V2O3 (structure III) which proceeds to generate coke. Unlike oxidative propane dehydrogenation, the reduction environment keeps vanadium oxide at low oxidative state and propane dehydrogenation continues by a non-oxidative mechanism. Although V2O3 (structure III) is active for dehydrogenation, it also can easily induce coke formation because of its strong binding towards propylene. In contrast, the formation of acetone is much harder over structure II, thus leading to favorable production of propylene (see FigureS32). Moreover, the existence of surface OH groups blocks the exposed V ion and thus enhances C3H6 desorption and prevents coke formation, resulting in higher stability of the catalyst.
In summary, we have tuned the coverage of surface hydroxyl groups on supported VOx. By combined experimental and calculational studies, we demonstrate that the hydroxyl groups on the supported VOx catalysts are strongly connected with the intrinsic activity for PDH reaction and coke formation (Scheme1). A VOx catalyst covered with hydroxyl groups possesses a lower PDH activity and a lower coke deposition rate compared with those without hydroxyl groups. It is reasonable to attribute these effects to the structure difference caused by the number of hydroxyl groups, which tunes the valance state of exposed V atoms. Our previous study has shown that the V3+ site is more active for PDH reaction than others on supported VOx catalysts,5a which might, to some extent, explain why the catalyst without H2 reduction shows higher initial activity in the present study.
Scheme 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Schematic profile of propane dehydrogenation over supported VOx catalysts with and without hydroxyl groups. The H2 pre-reduction produces surface VOH species and leads to a relatively lower PDH activity and less coke formation, while under the C3H8 atmosphere, the fresh catalyst is directly reduced to V3+ species which show higher activity with fast coke formation. Note that the total PDH activity is the combination of all exposed V3+, V4+, and V5+ sites with different ratios induced by different pretreatment methods.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 