No relevant quotes

[1] In this review, we describe the progress in the synthesis and PDH performance of metal-molecular sieve catalysts, including metal-mesoporous silica, metal-zeolite, and metal-hierarchical zeolite catalysts. 
         [2] The strategies in identifying and regulating active site microstructure and metal-molecular sieve interactions as well as their correlations with active site structure and PDH mechanism are introduced simultaneously.
         [3] This review is expected to provide some guidance for future catalyst design based on utilizing the molecular sieves structural confinement to facilitate propane activation and active site stabilization.
         [4] PDH is acknowledged as a structure-insensitive reaction where the CH bond cleavage can occur on every metal or metaloxygen site.

[1] The main industrial PDH processes are Oleflex and Catofin, utilizing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, respectively.

         [2] Benefit from the development of hydraulic fracturing technologies in North America, a large amount of shale gas, including methane, ethane, and propane, can be extracted in a cost-effective manner [3], creating an opportunity for the development of the PDH technology.

[1] "Commercially applied catalysts are supported materials on the basis of Al2O3 with Pt or CrOx species responsible for propane dehydrogenation."
        [2] "According to DFT calculations, two neighboring coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations (Zrcus) were concluded to form the active site."

[1] Sn-Beta zeolite is able to activate the C-H bond of propane at a high temperature, and it exhibits high selectivity, good activity, and excellent stability in propane dehydrogenation. 

[2] Theoretical calculations suggest that the propane dehydrogenation takes place on the Lewis acid sites arising from the single-site Sn in the zeolitic framework.

[1] "Many experimental studies have been done to evaluate the effect of alloying platinum with tin on propane dehydrogenation."
         [2] "PtSn alloy nanoparticles have higher turnover frequencies and selectivity compared to pure Pt nanoparticles."

[1] Catalysts can facilitate propane dehydrogenation by "lowering activation energy barriers" through specific mechanisms that are described. 
         [2] "Direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an economically competitive and environmentally friendly industrial scheme used to produce propylene."

No relevant quotes for question 2 from the answers.

[2] Propylene steadily increasing demand requires further capacity expansion through efficient production processes not limited to the conventional fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. Benefited from the mass exploitation of shale gas resource, catalytically nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane has been recently developed as an available complement to produce propylene. [5] Benefited from the mass exploitation of shale gas resource, catalytically nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane has been recently developed as an available complement to produce propylene.

[1] "To achieve high activity and selectivity, introducing mesoporous silica as a support offers avenues to tune these factors. The materials that have been explored include MCM-41, MSU-x, SBA-15/SBA-1, and TUD-1." 

         [2] "On VOx/SiO2 catalyst, Ascoop et al. find that CO2 reoxidizes the site with a barrier of 1.76 eV, which is lower than on the pure V2O5 surface but still significant in energy."

[1] Catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers

         [2] The article explains that catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering the activation energy, stating "To achieve high activity, propene selectivity, on stream stability and durability, researchers have tried to synthesize catalysts with certain structure of supported catalytically active sites/species." (Introduction, paragraph 3) It also describes specific mechanisms, such as "SiO2, Al2O3, TiO2, ZrO2 and CeO2 are typical supports, while catalytically active species are supported noble (e.g. Pt, Pd, Ru, and Rh) or non-noble (e.g. Fe, Co, Ni, and Zn) metals." (Introduction, paragraph 2)

No relevant quotes.

No relevant quotes

No relevant quotes

[1] "Activation of the C-H bonds of propane is the most important step that determines the catalytic performance of PDH catalysts."

[1] "Recently, ZrO2 has been deemed as a promising catalyst for PDH. It has been widely reported that H2 treatment will produce oxygen vacancies in ZrO2, resulting in the formation of low-coordinated Zr active sites for significantly enhancing the dehydrogenation activity."
         [2] "The conversion of light alkanes to olefins (e.g., ethylene, propylene, or butylene) is crucial to the chemical industry."

[1] "Al2O3-supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts are employed in the industrial PDH processes. However, propylene selectivity and catalyst stability are still unsatisfactory on Pt-based catalysts, while CrOx-based catalysts suffer from environmental pollution."
           [2] "Thus, driven by the strong desire to discover alternative catalysts, various metal oxides such as Ga2O3, (35) VOx, (69) ZrO2, (1012) CeO2, (13,14) ZnO, (15,16) and TiO2 (17,18) have been extensively studied, among which Ga2O3 is one of the most promising."

[1] The reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism proposed in 1934 is a widely acknowledged mechanism to describe the kinetics of the propane dehydrogenation process, dividing the whole process into three parts: (i) dissociative adsorption of the alkane, where one hydrogen atom is eliminated; (ii) extraction of the β-H from the adsorbed species along with the formation of H2 and a CC double bond; and (iii) desorption of the alkene and H2.

[1] "Pt-based catalysts are typically used in propane dehydrogenation reactions due to their high activity for C-H bond scission and relatively low activity for C-C bond cleavage."

         [2] "Pt-based catalysts are widely used in this reaction due to its high activity in CH scission and relatively low capability in CC cleavage."

[1] First principles periodic density functional theory (DFT) calculations, in conjunction with detailed microkinetic modeling and experimental characterization, are employed to elucidate the structure sensitivity and identify key selectivity descriptors for nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on intermetallic alloys.

[1] The dehydrogenation of light alkanes is highly endothermic and thermodynamically limited, resulting in low conversion and selectivity in the absence of catalysts. The application of suitable catalysts can facilitate the reaction by lowering the activation barriers.
           [2] Ga2O3 particles were observed on Ga-CHA(5, 1.0) on the zeolite surface (Figure S3), due to the relatively large amount of Ga loading, in agreement with the observation of mesopores associated with Ga2O3 on the N2 adsorption isotherms of Ga-CHA(5, 1.0) (Figure S5c).

No relevant quotes

[1] To achieve significant propylene yields, PDH typically operates at 550-700 C. Common side reactions include CC bond cleavage via cracking and hydrogenolysis.

      [2] Metal cation exchanged zeolites are efficient catalysts for PDH with 90% propylene selectivity. As shown in Figure 2, metal cations exchanged zeolites are prepared by replacing Brønsted acid sites (BAS) with metal cations via ion-exchange. Metal cations entering zeolite matrices via ion exchange (IE) generally exhibit Lewis acidity, and are generally believed to be responsible for catalyzing alkane dehydrogenation.

[1] Pt-based catalysts are widely used in propane dehydrogenation to meet the dramatically increased demand of propylene from an on-purpose catalytic process.  
           [2] Platinum-based catalysts have been already employed in Oleflex commercial PDH process from the UOP company.

Catalysts lower the activation energy required for propane dehydrogenation. Chromium and platinum oxides are the main industrial catalysts. The reaction mechanism involves C-H bond activation on metal sites via hydrogen abstraction.

No relevant quotes

No relevant quotes

[1] "Platinum catalysts are widely used in hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons."
         [2] "Many of these reactions are known to be structure-sensitive, which has been intensively studied for supported metal catalysts."
         [3] "The coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms on steps and corners have high activity toward cracking."
         [4] "Platinum cluster size has a significant influence on the activity, selectivity, and stability as well as the reaction mechanism during propane dehydrogenation (PDH)."

In short, the outer layer of the liquid alloy droplets is typically depleted in atoms of the catalytically active metal. (10) In the presence of the reactants, however, the catalytically active metal atoms appear as single atoms at the gasliquid metal interface to provide their catalytic reactivity to the system.
         The single atom nature of the active site was first demonstrated by DFT calculation for GaPd systems and supported for GaRh (2) and GaPt3 systems using infrared reflectionabsorption spectroscopy (IRAS).

[1] "Therefore, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) process is one of the efficient industrial routes to produce propylene [4, 5]."

      [2] "In particular, coke covers the active sites, leading to reduced activity and loss of stability, which requires the periodic regeneration of the catalyst. The main challenge in the PDH process is that the active sites of the catalyst should be able to activate the stable CH bond in the propane molecule, which has a strong bonding energy of 409 kJ/mol." 

      [3] "The calculations clearly highlight the challenge faced by active centers in PDH. For propene formation, they should possess a reactivity sufficient to break the strong CH bonds of propane; however, their reactivity should not be too active to hinder propene desorption and lead to deep dehydrogenation."

No relevant quotes

