I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Rare-earthplatinum alloy nanoparticles in mesoporous zeolite for catalysis
Abstract
Platinum is a much used catalyst that, in petrochemical processes, is often alloyed with other metals to improve catalytic activity, selectivity and longevity1,2,3,4,5. Such catalysts are usually prepared in the form of metallic nanoparticles supported on porous solids, and their production involves reducing metal precursor compounds under a H2 flow at high temperatures6. The method works well when using easily reducible late transition metals, but Pt alloy formation with rare-earth elements through the H2 reduction route is almost impossible owing to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides6. Here we use as support a mesoporous zeolite that has pore walls with surface framework defects (called silanol nests) and show that the zeolite enables alloy formation between Pt and rare-earth elements. We find that the silanol nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a substantially higher chemical potential compared with that of the bulk oxide, making it possible for them to diffuse onto Pt. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy and hydrogen chemisorption measurements indicate that the resultant bimetallic nanoparticles supported on the mesoporous zeolite are intermetallic compounds, which we find to be stable, highly active and selective catalysts for the propane dehydrogenation reaction. When used with late transition metals, the same preparation strategy produces Pt alloy catalysts that incorporate an unusually large amount of the second metal and, in the case of the PtCo alloy, show high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in H2.
Main
Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is one of the most important petrochemical processes, used for a large portion of the worldwide propylene production3. This process is currently attracting interest in the area of heterogeneous catalysis owing to a sudden increase in propane supply from the shale gas revolution. The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades, since its discovery in the early 1990s3,7. The Pt metal alone exhibits high initial catalytic activity, but rapidly deactivates as a result of coke deposition on the Pt surface. The coke deposition also causes an undesirable loss of the catalytic selectivity to propylene. To alleviate these problems, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles and thereby dilute the Pt surface with inactive Sn atoms and break up coke-generating Pt ensembles. But coke deposition still occurs, and currently used PtSn/alumina catalysts still require frequent and cumbersome regeneration steps to restore their catalytic activity.
Our search for a highly active and more durable PDH catalyst has focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support. This zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent, has attracted attention as an advanced catalyst support8,9,10,11,12,13 owing to its unique structure, which comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores that boost the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing both facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores12,13. We incorporated La and Y along with Pt into this mesoporous zeolite to improve the Pt catalyst dispersion, as these rare-earth element (REE) oxides are known for their strong metalsupport interactions with Pt that stabilize the latter in the form of small nanoparticles14,15. Whereas we expected that addition of REEs might improve the initial PDH activity of the Pt/zeolite catalyst owing to the strong metalsupport interaction effect, to our surprise, the catalytic lifetime was increased more than tenfold with the addition of La and Y. Investigation by atomic-resolution electron microscopy showed that some La and Y existed in an alloyed form with Pt nanoparticles, supported on the mesoporous zeolite. Systematic exploration allowed us to increase the catalytic lifetime 700-fold by ensuring that supported Pt nanoparticles are all present as intermetallic compounds with La.
Figure 1 shows the structure of the PtY intermetallic compound nanoparticles formed on the mesoporous zeolite. Representative low-magnification high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images (Fig. 1a, b) show metal nanoparticles about 3 nm in diameter uniformly distributed over the zeolite support, with energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) measurements indicating that Pt and Y coexist in the same particle (Fig. 1c). To determine the detailed atomic structure of the bimetallic nanoparticles, atomic-resolution (AR) HAADF-STEM images and the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) images were taken along different zone axes, [100] and [110]. The AR-HAADF-STEM image taken along [100] displays a regular array of bright and dark regions, which correspond to two different types of atomic column aligned perpendicularly to the image (Fig. 1d). The image contrast can be confirmed by the line scan profile shown in Fig. 1f. Considering the Z-contrast of the HAADF detector, the bright parts can be regarded as columns of heavy Pt atoms, whereas the dark parts are assigned to columns of relatively lighter Y atoms. As shown in the inset of Fig. 1d, when projected along [100], every column of Y atoms is neighboured by eight columns of Pt. This ordered atomic arrangement is identical to the L12 superlattice with an atomic composition of Pt3Y found in bulk metal alloys, except for the slight difference in the atomic distance due to nanocrystallinity. The Pt3Y L12 structure can be described as the replacement of corner Pt atoms in the unit cell of face-centred cubic Pt metal with bulkier Y atoms. The inter-planar distances and angles shown in the AR-HAADF-STEM image are consistent with the Pt3Y L12 structure. The (010) and (001) reflection spots marked in yellow in the FFT image (Fig. 1e) are characteristic of the L12 superlattice. The L12 arrangement of Pt and Y atoms can also be confirmed when viewed along the [110] zone axis (Fig. 1g, h). On the basis of the STEM investigation, a structural model of the Pt3Y nanoparticle is proposed in Fig. 1i. The same L12 superlattice structure was also observed in the case of PtLa nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolite. A detailed structural analysis of the Pt3La nanoparticle is provided in Extended Data Fig. 1.
Fig. 1: Pt3Y nanoparticles with an L12 superlattice structure supported on mesoporous MFI zeolite.
a, b, Low-magnification HAADF-STEM images, showing uniformly sized metal nanoparticles dispersed on the mesoporous zeolite. c, EDS line scan profile taken along the blue arrow in b, which indicates the presence of both Pt and Y in the same particle. The signals were collected from the Pt M edge and the Y K edge. d, g, AR-HAADF-STEM images taken along the [100] and [110] zone axes of the metal nanoparticles, showing the Pt3Y ordered alloy structure with an L12 superlattice. The inset in d is a cropped image showing that each Y column (blue) is surrounded by eight Pt columns (red). e, h, FFT images obtained from the HAADF-STEM images of d and g, respectively. L12 superlattice reflections from the intermetallic compound structure are indicated by yellow arrows. f, Intensity profile taken along the 100 direction indicated by a purple arrow in d. The intensity profile in f shows that Pt and Y atomic columns are alternating. i, Proposed atomic structure of the Pt3Y nanoparticles. Grey and red spheres represent Pt and Y atoms, respectively.
Full size image
The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was conducted by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and either La(NO3)3·6H2O or Y(NO3)3·6H2O, followed by heating under an O2 flow at 350C and subsequently under H2 at 700C (see Methods). However, the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y intermetallic nanoparticles that exhibited long catalytic lifetime critically depended on the zeolite synthesis procedures, even when the obtained zeolites were all siliceous and had similar mesoporosity. When the zeolite was prepared following a typical synthesis procedure using sodium silicate, the impregnated REEs in the zeolite existed as oxide nanoparticles, without forming intermetallic alloy nanoparticles with Pt. The Pt nanoparticles in separation from the REEs exhibited an extremely short PDH catalytic lifetime, identical to that obtained without REE incorporation. Alternatively, when zeolites synthesized under a sodium-free condition were used, there was a small but distinct increase in the catalytic lifetime. Our curiosity about this phenomenon led us to carry out an AR-HAADF-STEM investigation of the PtREE/zeolite, in which we observed a tiny portion of supported nanoparticles existing in alloy forms. From this unexpected observation, we speculated that the PtREE alloy formation could occur by incorporating the REEs in the form of single atomic species with high chemical potential. Such single atomic REEs could be converted to metallic REEs with H2 more easily than bulk REE oxides. We further speculated that the formation of atomically dispersed REEs could be assisted by framework defect sites in the zeolite, where multiple silanol groups are adjacently positioned to form a cluster of silanol groups (silanol nest). In fact, silanol nests are often detected by Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy in mesoporous zeolite synthesized under sodium-free conditions. We believe that the silanol nests could stabilize the single atomic REE species by forming coordination bonds16. In that case, it would be possible to control the formation of PtREE alloy nanoparticles by the concentration of silanol nests in the zeolite.
With these assumptions, we intentionally generated silanol nests by synthesizing a mesoporous gallosilicate zeolite and subsequently removing the framework Ga atoms using nitric acid (see Methods and Extended Data Figs. 2, 3). Each of the degallated sites corresponded to a generated silanol nest. The increase in the silanol nest concentration in the zeolite was supported by FTIR measurements (Extended Data Fig. 4). In accordance with our hypothesis, the REEs incorporated in this zeolite were indeed atomically dispersed, as shown in a video taken by AR-HAADF-STEM (see Supplementary Video 1). In this video, the single atomic species of La exhibited rapid and random translational motions on the zeolite surface, which we interpret as a single atomic REE species hopping from one silanol nest to another. We believe that the atomistic diffusion enables the formation of PtREE intermetallic nanoparticles when the zeolite is heated under H2 at 700C after impregnation of the metal precursors. In fact, the PtREE/zeolite sample shown in Fig. 1 was prepared using a degallated zeolite containing a large number of silanol nest sites. The PtREE/zeolite showed formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles generated in this manner exhibited a distinctive H2 sorption behaviour (see Extended Data Table 1). The alloy nanoparticles chemisorbed 0.5 H atoms per total Pt in the sample in a fully reversible manner, given that all hydrogen completely desorbed upon evacuation for 1 h at room temperature. Monometallic Pt nanoparticles, by contrast, chemisorbed 1.0 H atoms per total Pt, with 64% of this amount strongly and irreversibly bonded. This indicates that the electronic state of the intermetallic compound nanoparticles was markedly different from that of monometallic Pt, as further confirmed by X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) analysis (see Extended Data Fig. 5), which indicated a noticeable shift in edge energy and in the white-line region upon the formation of PtREE intermetallic compounds.
The formation of the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite brought a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity and durability, as shown in Fig. 2. The catalytic reaction was performed at 580C using a pure propane flow at a large space velocity (see Methods), and these harsh operating conditions caused even the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst to experience severe coke formation and catalyst deactivation within 1 d. In sharp contrast, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite (denoted as PtLa/mz-deGa, where mz stands for mesoporous zeolite) showed a high initial propane conversion of 40% (close to the equilibrium conversion) and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. In a control using a catalyst with the same amounts of Pt and La supported on the mesoporous zeolite synthesized from sodium silicate (denoted as PtLa/mz), propane conversion was 22% initially and dropped very rapidly to below 5% within 1.5 h. Even though both catalysts used zeolites with the same MFI framework structure and the same mesoporosity as the support (Extended Data Fig. 6), their catalytic lifetimes differed by three orders of magnitude. The rapid deactivation behaviour of the PtLa/mz catalyst was similar to that of the monometallic Pt catalyst supported on mesoporous zeolite (Pt/mz), consistent with the hydrogen chemisorption property of the PtLa/mz sample, indicating that the supported Pt existed entirely as monometallic nanoparticles and that no alloy with La was present (Extended Data Table 1). These comparisons suggest that the differences in catalyst performance between PtLa/mz-deGa and PtLa/mz are largely due to formation of the intermetallic alloy. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the PtLa/mz-deGa catalyst contained a small amount of Ga (Si/Ga = 598) even after the degallation, and that this may participate in the catalytic function17,18. The effect of the remaining Ga was examined from the differences in PDH performance of mz-deGa, La/mz-deGa and Pt/mz-deGa, as shown in Extended Data Fig. 7. A simple comparison of the catalytic result suggested that the Ga effect was not as dramatic as the alloying effect, but there are still possibilities of Ga acting somehow as a promotor to enhance the catalytic function and/or the alloy formation in PtLa/mz-deGa. Moreover, in a similar manner to PtLa/mz-deGa, PtY/mz-deGa also exhibited high initial propane conversion and propylene selectivity, and slow catalyst deactivation. This appears to be attributable to the difference in atomic size and electron negativity. Because La has a larger atomic size and lower electron negativity than Y, the geometric and electronic properties of Pt were modified to a greater extent. As this result shows, zeolites can be an effective support for the development of PDH catalysts. In recent years, efficient conversion of propane to propylene was reported with PtZn and PtSn catalysts supported on zeolites19,20,21. For industrial application of the zeolite-supported catalysts, it would be important to establish an efficient regeneration method, such as the oxychlorination process employed for PtSn/alumina. However, the regenerability of these catalysts has not yet been fully demonstrated.
Fig. 2: Catalytic performance of PtREE intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the mesoporous zeolite in propane dehydrogenation.
a, Propane conversion as a function of time on stream. b, Propylene selectivity as a function of time on stream. The bimetallic PtREE alloy catalysts are composed of 1 wt% Pt and 1 wt% REE. For comparison, PtSn/alumina and Pt/mz catalysts were also tested. The PDH reaction conditions were as follows: 50 mg catalyst, weight hourly space velocity of 11 h1 with a pure propane gas flow, and temperature of 580C.
Full size image
The high PDH catalytic performance of PtLa/mz-deGa and PtY/mz-deGa can be ascribed to the critical role of surface silanol nests that enabled atomistic alloying of La and Y into Pt nanoparticles. This approach can be extended to produce other metal alloys composed of Pt-group metals and REEs, as suggested in the case of the PtCe intermetallic alloy nanoparticle catalyst shown in Fig. 2 and Extended Data Fig. 8. The silanol nests in the mesoporous zeolite can effectively activate the hard-to-reduce REEs (that is, REEs with low reduction potential) to overcome the energy hurdle by putting them into single atomic species, which facilitates the formation of alloy nanoparticles. For the PtLa and PtY bimetallic catalysts, the reduction potential of the REEs is so low that the role of silanol nests is decisive for the formation of the metal alloys. In many other transition metal elements with higher reduction potential (for example, Co, Fe and Zn), alloy formation is known to occur spontaneously when the incorporated metal precursors are heated under H2. But even in this case, the atomistic diffusivity of the activated species via silanol nests is expected to facilitate access of the transition metal elements to nearby Pt nanoparticles, on which these species are reduced to the metallic state by reacting with chemisorbed hydrogen. This process can promote metal incorporation into the Pt nanoparticle. In fact, the promoting effect has been confirmed in the case of PtCo bimetallic alloy catalysts for the preferential CO oxidation (PROX) reaction. The PtCo catalysts were prepared on two zeolite supports, mz and mz-deGa, and on an alumina support. All the resultant catalyst samples showed PtCo nanoparticles with randomly distributed Pt and Co atoms, but the Co/Pt atomic ratio was considerably different, increasing in the order of alumina  mz < mz-deGa. The difference in the alloy composition resulted in a remarkable change in the catalytic performance for PROX in a H2-rich stream containing 1.4% CO (catalytic efficiency: PtCo/alumina  PtCo/mz < PtCo/mz-deGa; see Extended Data Fig. 9). On the basis of these results, we believe that the use of the present mesoporous zeolite as a support would allow the discovery of not only REE-based alloy catalysts, but also other transition metal-based alloy catalysts with various compositions and structures, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications.
Methods
Preparation of zeolites
The mz-deGa zeolite was prepared by the post-synthetic degallation of mesoporous MFI gallosilicate zeolite, which was prepared using [C18H37N+(Me)2C6H12N+(Me)2C4H9]Br2 (denoted as C18-6-4) as a micro-/mesoporous structure-directing agent. For the synthesis of mesoporous MFI gallosilicate, sodium silicate (29 wt% SiO2, Si/Na = 1.75; Shinheung Silicate) and gallium nitrate were used as silica and gallium oxide sources, respectively. In the typical synthesis of mesoporous MFI gallosilicate, 20 g of sodium silicate solution was diluted with 24 g of distilled water. The diluted sodium silicate solution was mixed with a clear solution consisting of 36 g of water and 4.7 g of C18-6-4. After ageing under magnetic stirring for 30 min, the clear solution containing 0.52 g of gallium nitrate and 15.4 g of water was poured at once into the solution containing sodium silicate and C18-6-4. The resultant gel was aged at 60C for 6 h under magnetic stirring. After cooling to the ambient temperature, 18.7 g of 0.86 M H2SO4 was added dropwise with vigorous stirring to adjust the pH of the zeolite synthesis gel. Again, the resultant gel was aged under magnetic stirring at 60C for 12 h. The final molar gel composition was SiO2:Ga2O3:C18-6-4:Na2O:H2SO4:H2O = 100:1:7.5:30: 16:6,000. The resultant gel was transferred into a Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave and then heated by tumbling at 150C for 3 d in a convection oven. The product was collected as a white powder by filtration, washing with distilled water and drying at 100C. Finally, mesoporous MFI gallosilicate was obtained after the calcination at 580C to remove the structure-directing agent.
The framework Ga species in the mesoporous MFI gallosilicate was removed by HNO3 treatments. In a typical Ga-removal procedure, 1 g of mesoporous MFI gallosilicate was poured into 100 ml of the 13 M HNO3. The resultant mixture was heated at 100C for 12 h under magnetic stirring. After filtration, the resultant sample was thoroughly washed with distilled water until the pH of the filtrate water reached 7. The HNO3 treatment and H2O washing were repeated two more times, and then the mz-deGa was collected after drying at 100C.
The mz zeolite was synthesized by a procedure similar to that described for the mesoporous MFI gallosilicate. In a typical synthesis of mz, 20 g of sodium silicate (29 wt% SiO2, Si/Na = 1.75; Shinheung Silicate) was diluted with 24 g of distilled water. To this silicate solution, a clear aqueous solution containing 4.7 g of C18-6-4 and 67 g of distilled water was poured at once and strongly shaken manually for 10 min. The resultant gel was aged at 60C for 6 h under magnetic stirring. The final molar gel composition was SiO2:C18-6-4:Na2O:H2O = 100:7.5:10:6,000. The final synthesis gel was transferred into a Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave and heated by tumbling at 150C for 2.5 d. Then, the same procedure was used as for the mesoporous MFI gallosilicate.
Preparation of supported metal catalysts
The Pt and REEs were supported on the mz and mz-deGa zeolites by the incipient wetness impregnation technique. Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2, La(NO3)3·6H2O, Y(NO3)3·6H2O and Ce(NO3)3·6H2O were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and used as received as metal precursors. Typically, Pt and REE precursors were dissolved in an appropriate volume of distilled water, and their amounts were determined so as to yield metal contents of 1 wt% Pt and 1 wt% REE in the final supported catalyst. The PtREE-impregnated zeolites were dried at 60C overnight. The dried samples were treated under an O2 flow at 350C for 2 h (ramping rate, 0.8C min1; flow rate, 500 cm3 min1 gcat1, where gcat denotes grams of catalyst). Subsequently, the resultant samples were treated under a H2 flow at 700C for 2 h, except for the case of PtCe/mz-deGa, which was treated at 580C (ramping rate, 0.3C min1, H2 flow rate, 300 cm3 min1 gcat1). These zeolite-supported PtREE samples were used as catalysts for the PDH reaction tests and for various characterizations, except for the AR-HAADF-STEM investigation. For the AR-HAADF-STEM investigation, the PtREE/zeolite samples were prepared following the aforementioned co-impregnation procedure, except that the Pt and REE loading amounts were changed to 4 wt% and 4 wt%, respectively, in order to increase the average size of supported nanoparticles to obtain clearer images. In addition, Pt/mz and PtSn/alumina were prepared as described in the legend of Extended Data Fig. 10 and tested as catalysts for the PDH reaction. The PtCo catalysts were supported onto the mz-deGa, mz and alumina supports following a similar procedure to that for the supported PtREE catalysts for the PROX tests. In a typical PtCo loading process, Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and Co(NO3)2 precursors were co-incorporated onto the supports via the incipient wetness impregnation technique, and the amounts of metal precursors were determined to yield 2 wt% and 1 wt% of Pt and Co, respectively, in the final supported PtCo samples. The metal precursor-incorporated samples were heated under an O2 flow at 350C for 2 h (ramping rate of 1.5C min1) and subsequently treated under a H2 flow at 300C for 2 h (ramping rate of 1.3C min1).
Characterizations
The HAADF-STEM images were taken with a Titan cubed G2, a Titan Themis Z and a Titan ETEM G2 instrument at 300 kV acceleration voltage. EDS analysis was carried out with four integrated silicon-drift EDS detectors (Super-X) at a collection solid angle of 0.7 srad. The FT-IR spectra were collected using a JASCO FT-IR 6100 spectrometer under vacuum at room temperature after self-supporting wafers of mesoporous zeolites were degassed at 400C. The hydrogen chemisorption was measured using a laboratory-made volumetric apparatus. Prior to the hydrogen chemisorption measurement, supported-metal samples were reduced under a H2 flow at the appropriate temperature for 2 h. Subsequently, the H2-treated samples were heated at 400C under vacuum for the desorption of hydrogen. After cooling to room temperature, the first hydrogen chemisorption measurement was performed with the degassed sample at room temperature. After degassing the sample again by evacuation at room temperature for 1 h, the second hydrogen chemisorption measurement was carried out. The hydrogen per metal atom in the chemisorption measurement was calculated by extrapolation of the adsorption isotherm to zero pressure. The elemental contents were determined by inductively coupled plasmaatomic emission spectroscopy using an OPTIMA 4300 DV instrument (PerkinElmer). Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) patterns were collected by a Rigaku Multiflex diffractometer using a nickel-filtered Cu Kα radiation beam (40 kV, 30 mA). Nitrogen adsorptiondesorption isotherms were measured at liquid-nitrogen temperature with a Micromeritics Tristar instrument. The specific surface area was calculated using the BrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) equation with the adsorption isotherm data in the relative-pressure range P/P0 = 0.050.2. The pore size distribution was determined using the BarretJoynerHalenda (BJH) method from the adsorption branch of the isotherm. The total pore volume was obtained at P/P0 = 0.95 from the adsorption branch of the isotherm. The XANES spectra were measured at the Pt L3 edge and the Y K edge in transmission mode at Pohang Accelerator Laboratory (10C-Wide XAFS beamline). For the XANES measurement, each metal precursor-impregnated sample was treated by O2 at 350C and then pressed into a round-shaped pellet (diameter, 10 mm). The O2-treated pellet was loaded inside a laboratory-made Pyrex glass apparatus and heated under a H2 flow at the appropriate temperature. After the H2 treatment, the catalyst pellet was sealed under a H2 flow inside the Pyrex glass with polyimide windows by melting the glass with a propane torch. The XANES spectra were measured by passing the beam through the glass-sealed catalyst pellets. All the XANES spectra were calibrated using Pt and Y metal foil references, which were purchased from Alfa Aesar. All the analysis of XANES data was performed using ATHENA software22.
PDH reaction tests
PDH reaction tests were carried out using a fixed-bed reactor made of a quartz tube with an inner diameter of 8 mm. Prior to the catalyst loading, the supported metal catalysts were shaped into particles with diameters of 150350 μm by pressing the powder form of the catalysts and subsequently sieving with a mesh network. 50 mg of the shaped catalyst was loaded in the quartz tube reactor, and the residual space in the reactor was also filled with quartz sand to minimize the contribution of the thermal reaction. After the loading, the catalysts were activated by in situ reduction under a H2 flow at the appropriate temperatures for the metal elements (700C for PtLa and PtY; 580C for Pt and PtCe) for 2 h at a ramping rate of 0.3C min1 and a flow rate of 200 cm3 min1 gcat1. The reduced catalyst bed was then purged with a N2 gas flow (200 cm3 min1 gcat1) for 1 h at 580C to completely remove the chemisorbed hydrogens. After the N2 purging, the PDH reaction test was performed with the following reaction conditions: 50 mg catalyst, weight hourly space velocity (WHSV; based on the total weight of catalyst) of 11 h1 with pure propane gas flow and temperature of 580C. The products were analysed by an on-line gas chromatography instrument equipped with a flame-ionization detector (FID) and a GS-Gaspro column. The propane conversion and propylene selectivity were calculated on a carbon basis, which were determined by the FID peak areas of the outlet product streamthat is, propane conversion (%) = 100 × (1  carbons of propane/total carbons); propylene selectivity (%) = 100 × carbons of propylene/(total carbons  carbons of propane). After the PDH test, the quartz sands and catalyst particles loaded in the reactor were collected and investigated by thermogravimetric analysis to determine the amount of coke deposit. The result indicated that the coke formation was negligible, and the product distribution could be entirely determined from the FID peaks.
PROX tests
The PROX tests were performed using a gas-flow fixed-bed reactor made of a quartz tube with 8 mm inner diameter. Prior to the catalyst loading, the PtCo catalysts were shaped in the same manner as in the PDH reaction tests. The shaped catalyst (50 mg) was loaded into the quartz reactor and reduced under a H2 flow (600 cm3 min1 gcat1) at 300C for 2 h. After cooling the reactor to room temperature under an inert gas flow (600 cm3 min1 gcat1), the PROX test was performed with the following reaction conditions: 50 mg catalyst; molar gas composition CO:O2:H2:He:N2 = 1.4:1.4:56.8:39.0:1.4; GHSV = 36,000 cm3 h1; and reaction temperature = room temperature225 C. The products were analysed with an on-line gas chromatography instrument equipped with an FID and a thermal conductivity detector using a Porapak Q column and a Molecular Sieve 5A column, respectively.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 