I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Tandem In2O3-Pt/Al2O3 catalyst for coupling of propane dehydrogenation to selective H2 combustion
Overcoming propylene oxidation
Catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene and water become less selective with increasing conversion because propylene itself is more readily oxidized than propane. Yan et al. created nanoscale tandem catalysts by growing an 2-nanometer shell of indium oxide, a selective hydrogen combustion catalyst, over a propane dehydrogenation catalyst, platinum nanoparticles supported on alumina spheres (see the Perspective by Pei and Gong). This overcoat exposed the platinum nanoparticles for propane dehydrogenation. Surface hydrogen atoms were oxidized at the indium oxideplatinum interface. This approach boosted yields of propylene to up to 30%.
Science, this issue p. 1257; see also p. 1203
Abstract
Tandem catalysis couples multiple reactions and promises to improve chemical processing, but precise spatiotemporal control over reactive intermediates remains elusive. We used atomic layer deposition to grow In2O3 over Pt/Al2O3, and this nanostructure kinetically couples the domains through surface hydrogen atom transfer, resulting in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to propylene by platinum, then selective hydrogen combustion by In2O3, without excessive hydrocarbon combustion. Other nanostructures, including platinum on In2O3 or platinum mixed with In2O3, favor propane combustion because they cannot organize the reactions sequentially. The net effect is rapid and stable oxidative dehydrogenation of propane at high per-pass yields exceeding the PDH equilibrium. Tandem catalysis using this nanoscale overcoating geometry is validated as an opportunity for highly selective catalytic performance in a grand challenge reaction.
SIGN UP FOR THE SCIENCEADVISER NEWSLETTER
The latest news, commentary, and research, free to your inbox daily
SIGN UP
Tandem and cooperative catalysis could revolutionize chemical production (1, 2) by minimizing separations, coupling reactions to drive transformations forward, or controlling selectivity in reaction networks (3). Examples include single-site cascade or domino reactions (46), multisite systems with exchange of fluid-phase intermediates (7, 8), and interfacial catalysis (9, 10). Some complex biomolecular assemblies can pass reactive intermediates sequentially among catalyst sites (11), but heterogeneous catalysts generally do not have the precise positioning of different functions required to do this. In this work, a tandem catalyst was developed for selective catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propylene. Propylene is an essential industrial intermediate with a gap between supply and anticipated demand (12). Nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, necessitating high temperatures to achieve commercially viable per-pass yields (13). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) has been proposed to overcome equilibrium limitations and avoid thermal cracking but suffers from decreasing selectivity with increasing conversion, giving yields below the PDH equilibrium, in spite of decades of research (12, 14). Similar issues face other grand-challenge, selective oxidations (15, 16), especially in cases in which challenging olefin-parafin separation necessitates high per-pass yields. Process engineering concepts such as reactor cascades, membrane reactors, and chemical looping address some limitations through physical or temporal separation of dehydrogenation and combustion (1719), but they can be challenging to implement.
We translated these macroscale engineering strategies into a single nanoscale tandem catalyst particle for ODHP-like propane to propylene. A known PDH catalyst, Pt/Al2O3, was interfaced with a known catalyst for selective H2 combustion (SHC), In2O3 (20), by means of atomic layer deposition (ALD) of In2O3, denoted @In2O3. We investigated three designs that changed the relative location of In2O3: (i) a physical mixture of Pt/Al2O3 + Al2O3@In2O3, (ii) Pt supported on Al2O3@In2O3 [Pt/(Al2O3@In2O3)]; and (iii) Pt/Al2O3 overcoated by a porous In2O3 film [(Pt/Al2O3)@XcIn2O3; Xc indicates the number of ALD cycles] with extensive metal-oxide interface (Fig. 1). In this last catalyst design, the In2O3 overcoat is intended to be neither an inert shell (21, 22) nor strong metal-support interaction (SMSI)like, totally encapsulating the Pt (23, 24). The propane conversion and propylene selectivity for the three designs are summarized in Fig. 2; full product distributions are found in figs. S1 and S2. Coking is minimal in all In2O3-containing catalysts, with >98.5% carbon balance. Ftandem is also reported, which we define as (1-H2/C3H6) ×100%. Ideal PDH gives Ftandem = 0 (H2/C3H6 = 1) (fig. S3), whereas obligate ODH catalysts (for example, supported VOx) give Ftandem  100% (H2/C3H6  0). Combined with conventional selectivity and conversion metrics, Ftandem is illustrative insomuch that values nearer 0 indicate that propane combustion consumes available O2 separate from PDH, whereas values nearer to 100% indicate kinetic coupling between PDH and SHC functions.
Fig. 1 Tandem catalyst models.
(A) Three tandem catalyst models comprising a microporous In2O3 selective H2 combustion catalyst (green) and a Pt/Al2O3 propane dehydrogenation catalyst (red Pt nanoparticles, blue Al2O3 particle). Tandem catalyst model 3, (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 (35 cycles of In2O3 deposition), possesses a 2-nm In2O3 overcoat and 2.0- to 2.3-nm Pt nanoparticles and is the best performing. (B) Tandem PDH-SHC reaction scheme for (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3. PDH occurs on Pt, and SHC consumes H over the In2O3 coating to pull the reaction forward to a high propylene yield. O2 rapidly reacts with the resulting In2O3-x, minimizing undesired combustion on Pt. The overcoat also stabilizes Pt nanoparticles against aggregation during reaction.
Fig. 2 Summary of catalyst activity and structure.
(A, E, and I) Propane conversion(solid triangles), propylene selectivity (solid diamonds), and Ftandem (open circles) for the tandem PDH-SHC reaction over the model catalysts (top row) Pt/Al2O3 + Al2O3@In2O3, (middle row) Pt/(Al2O3@35cIn2O3), and (bottom row) (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3. Temperature (T) = 450C, PC3H8:PO2:PN2 = 10:5:85 kPa. Inverse weight hourly space velocity (WHSV1) = 1.55 gC3H81 gcatalyst hours for (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 and Pt/(Al2O3@35cIn2O3) and 3.1 gC3H81 gcatalyst hours for Pt/Al2O3 + Al2O3@In2O3. (B, F, and J) STEM images of fresh catalysts. (C, G, and K) STEM images of used catalysts after 14 hours time on stream. (D, H, and L) Pt particle size distributions of fresh and used catalysts.
The physical mixture Pt/Al2O3 + Al2O3@In2O3 performed well initially, but performance decayed rapidly with time on stream (TOS) (Fig. 2A). Ftandem was 19  1% (Fig. 2A) at all TOS, indicating a small amount of H2 consumed by SHC on the Al2O3@In2O3 particles. A simplified reactor model (fig. S4) explains the data as loss of Pt-catalyzed PDH with TOS, whereas undesired hydrocarbon combustion remained constant. The Pt nanoparticles also aggregated from 2.3  0.7 nm to 5.0  3.3 nm after 14 hours TOS (Fig. 2, B to D). Stabilizing the Pt nanoparticles with an Al2O3 overcoat (25) did not prevent deactivation (fig. S5), showing that Pt nanoparticle stabilization is insufficient for good catalyst performance. Next, the supported catalyst Pt/(Al2O3@35cIn2O3) also aggregated and behaved similarly to the physical mixture (Fig. 2, E to H), with lower Ftandem (10% at all TOS), indicating relatively little kinetic coupling even though the Pt and In2O3 phases were in contact. The third design, overcoated (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3, gave the highest conversion (32%), selectivity (70%), and propylene yield (22%) and maintained this high performance for 14 hours TOS with only minor deactivation (Fig. 2I), which was readily reversed through in situ oxidation at reaction temperature (fig. S6). Ftandem was 40%, demonstrating greater kinetic coupling between PDH and SHC, and the In2O3 overcoat prevented Pt nanoparticle aggregation (constant 2.0  0.8 nm) (Fig. 2, J to L). These designs demonstrate that the benefits of high propylene selectivity, tight coupling between PDH and SHC, and high stability required the extensive and intimate connectivity afforded by the particular geometry of the overcoated nanostructure.
Performance of the overcoated catalyst was strongly dependent on catalyst composition. Increasing amounts of In2O3 improved conversion, selectivity, and stability up to 35 cycles of deposition (figs. S7 to S9), whereas a 55-cycle material performed similarly to Pt-free Al2O3@In2O3. Ftandem also increased with In2O3, demonstrating beneficial kinetic coupling between PDH and SHC. In addition, only the 35- and 55-cycle materials suppressed the total yield of CO2 from hydrocarbon combustion. The best performance over (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 was 75% selectivity at 40% conversion at 450C, which occurred at longer contact times (fig. S10) and near a 2:1 ratio of propane:O2 (fig. S11). O2 removal was fully reversible (fig. S12) and showed the substantial yield gains under oxidizing conditions. These effects were captured in a reactor model with O2-enhanced dehydrogenation and effective rate constants for dehydrogenation and H2 combustion that were higher on (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 than on the physical mixture (fig. S10). In additional experiments, we observed a stable 37% yield at 500C, with higher, but less-stable, yields at 550C (figs. S13 and S14). As summarized in Fig. 3, the overcoated, tandem catalyst outperformed state-of-the-art ODHP catalysts (table S1 and fig S15), and yields also exceeded the thermodynamic equilibrium conversion of 24% for nonoxidative PDH. Last, a simple packed bed of the overcoated tandem catalyst performs comparable with or better than more complex and lower-throughput designs such as membrane, staged, or chemical looping reactors (table S2).
Fig. 3 Comparison of (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 with the catalytic performance of established ODHP catalysts at their maximum reported per-pass yields.
Propane conversion was varied by changing WHSV1 from 0.77 to 5.72 gC3H81 gcatalyst hours at 450C with C3H8:O2 = 2:1. All reaction conditions and citations are listed in table S2.
To characterize the overcoated catalyst, scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental analysis confirmed a 2.0-nm conformal indium oxide coating after 35 cycles of ALD (Fig. 4, A and B, and fig. S16) and an unchanged Pt nanoparticle size distribution. N2 physisorption (fig. S17), CO pulse chemisorption, and CO diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) showed that the ALD process initially blocked 99% of the Pt surface, but heating to 450C uncovered approximately half the surface Pt atoms (Fig. 4C and table S3). Reexposing surfaces initially covered through ALD has been previously observed after similar treatments (25). Samples with different numbers of In2O3 or Al2O3 ALD layers showed no systematic differences in the shape of their CO DRIFTS spectra (fig. S18), which argued against site-selective coverage or electronic modification of the surface Pt atoms by the overcoat. Pt x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) showed identical spectra for Pt/Al2O3 and (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 after reaction (figs. S19 and S20), and the In 3d5/2 XPS feature was indicative of In2O3 (fig. S21), arguing against Pt-In alloy formation. The onset of H2temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) and H2O evolution was lowered by 100C when Pt and In2O3 were in intimate contact [for example, (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3] (figs. S22 and S23), and in situ DRIFTS under H2 (Fig. 4D) produced a broad feature from 1200 to 3000 cm1 in (Pt/Al2O3)@35cln2O3 owing to formation of In2O3-x (26, 27), which did not form for any other material. This same feature was seen for (Pt/Al2O3)@35cln2O3 in the presence of pure propane above 150C (fig. S24). TPR and in situ DRIFTS are consistent with an overall catalytic cycle involving direct H transfer across catalytic domains (Fig. 1B). This characterization provides initial verification of our structural hypothesis and provided evidence that intimate and extensive contact between Pt and In2O3 kinetically coupled PDH and SHC through the direct diffusion of chemisorbed H atoms.
Additional in situ and operando experiments, as well as microkinetic modeling, will be needed to fully understand this complex material. Overall, this tandem catalyst design shows that overcoats can stabilize metal nanoparticles and tightly couple reactions on the nanoscale to balance activity (on Pt) and selectivity (on In2O3) for biomimetic, direct transfer of reactive intermediates between two different catalyst functions. Beyond the results shown here, we expect that further improvements and examples are possible from optimization of process conditions and independent tuning of the identity and amount of dehydrogenation and SHC sites.
Fig. 4 Characterization of the tandem catalyst.
(A and B) STEM of (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 and selected-area EDS elemental analysis mapping. (C) Infrared spectra of adsorbed linear CO on Pt/Al2O3 and (Pt/Al2O3)@35cIn2O3 with feature intensity increasing with increasing pretreatment temperatures. (D) In situ H2 DRIFTS at room temperature of several catalysts. The broad band across the spectral window is associated with In2O3-x. a.u., arbitrary units.
In this work, supported Pt nanoparticles were synthesized by means of ALD on Al2O3 (NanoDur) or In2O3-coated Al2O3 by using a single cycle of trimethyl(methylcyclopentadienyl) Pt and O3 to give a final loading of 1.3 wt % Pt (fig. S25, A and B). Other routes could likely be used. In2O3 films of variable thickness were synthesized by means of 2 to 55 cycles of In2O3 ALD, alternating cyclopentadienyl indium (InCp) and O3, corresponding to 0.22 to 15.4 wt % In (table S4). Most catalytic experiments were performed by using materials with 35 cycles of In2O3 ALD, designated @35cIn2O3, containing 7 wt % In (fig. S25, C and D). Al2O3 films (fig. S26) were synthesized by using 35 cycles alternating trimethylaluminum and water.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 