I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Engineering OO Species in Boron Nitrous Nanotubes Increases Olefins for Propane Oxidative Dehydrogenation
Abstract
Boron nitride (BN) has been widely studied as an efficient catalyst for oxidative propane dehydrogenation (OPDH). Oxygen-containing boron species (e.g., BO·, B(OH)xO3x) are generally considered as the active centers in BN for OPDH. Here, we show an effective progressive substitution strategy toward the development of boronoxygennitrogen nanotubes (BONNTs) enriched with OO species as a highly active, selective, and stable catalyst for OPDH. At 525 C, an olefin yield of 48.6% is achieved over BONNTs with a propane conversion of 64.4%, 2.8 times that of boron nitrogen nanotubes (BNNTs). Even after reaction for 150 h (475 C), BONNTs exhibit good olefin yield. Both the B(OH)xO3x and OO species that coexist in the BONNT catalyst are demonstrated as active centers, which differs from the B(OH)xO3x one in BNNTs. Based on catalytic results, propane and oxygen alternate treatment experiments, and theoretical calculations, the OO center is more favorable for producing both propylene (C3=) and ethylene (C2=), which experiences a dehydration pathway and two possible reaction paths with a lower energy barrier to yield olefins, while B(OH)xO3x is mainly responsible for producing few C3=.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propene, a building block to synthesize fine chemicals in industry, is traditionally produced by steam cracking of naphtha and liquefied petroleum gas. (1,2) The increasing availability of natural gas and shale gas (including abundant propane), dehydrogenation of propane (PDH), and oxidative propane dehydrogenation (OPDH) has drawn more attention. (36) In particular, OPDH is a burgeoning technique due to its remarkable merits (e.g., exothermic thermodynamics, breaking equilibrium limitations, and coke-resistant feature). For example, the state-of-the-art tandem and boron-based OPDH catalysts achieve high olefin yields ranging from 30 to 40%. (2,8) However, OPDH usually suffers from overoxidation of propene to valueless COx, which impedes its industrial applications.
Recently, boron nitride (BN) as a promising catalyst for OPDH was found to tackle this issue. Some pioneering progress has been made in this area. Hermans group employed hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) and boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs) as efficient catalysts for OPDH, (7) and they further investigated the structural changes during catalysis via 11B nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) to identify B(OH)xO3x (where x = 03) as the active centers. (8,9) Furthermore, Lu and co-workers synthesized the highly active h-BN catalysts over OPDH by tailoring the functional groups. (10) In addition, Dais and Yamauchis groups fabricated a spherical superstructure consisting of boron nitride nanosheets (SS-BNNSs) via a simple solvothermal transformation process, which exhibited excellent catalytic activity for OPDH. (6) It is not hard to see that the active centers of BN catalysts are generally regarded as boronoxygen species (such as BO, B(OH)xO3x). Another important issue for boron-containing catalysts is the boron leaching in a humid atmosphere, thus leading to the decreasing durability in OPDH. One solution to this issue is to introduce new active centers, for instance, Xiao et al. reported that an isolated boron with a B[OH...O(H)-Si]2 structure as the active center enabled superior durability in a long period test. (8) Therefore, it is necessary but still a great challenge to design highly active, selective, and stable catalysts with new active centers over OPDH.
Herein, we report on a novel catalyst of boronoxygennitride nanotubes (BONNTs) with abundant OO species and demonstrate that both B(OH)xO3x and OO species serve as the active centers in BONNTs, which is different from the B(OH)xO3x counterpart in BNNTs. In-plane oxygen sites (including BO3 and OO species) were more catalytic than marginal oxygen (Figure S1). Therefore, when tested for OPDH, the BONNT catalyst showed 48.6% olefin yield and 64.4% propane conversion at 525 C, which surpassed BNNTs (2.8 times enhancement) and outperformed reported catalysts hitherto for OPDH (Table S1). Notably, the BONNTs exhibited good durability even after a 150-h reaction. On basis of the density functional theory (DFT) calculations and multiple characterizations, the OO active center plays a key role in producing both propylene (C3=) and ethylene (C2=), while the B(OH)xO3x center is inclined to make C3=. (i) To yield C3=, the OO species experience a dehydration pathway with a lower energy barrier to dehydrogenate propane, as compared with B(OH)xO3x. (ii) To yield C2=, the OO species possibly undergo two pathways with a low barrier, namely, direct cracking of propane and oxidative coupling of methyl (OCM).
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Synthesis and Characterization
BONNTs were prepared by a progressive substitution strategy with multiwalled carbon nanotubes (CNTs) (diameter 2040 nm) as a precursor (Figure 1a). Firstly, C atoms of CNTs were partially substituted by B and N atoms, producing boron carbon nitride nanotubes (BCNNTs). There are simultaneously BC, NC, and CC bonds in the C 1s spectrum of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), while BN bonds in the B 1s and N 1s spectra, indicating that B and N atoms have successfully replaced C atoms (Figure S2 and Table S2). (1114) Besides, the peaks centered at 817 and 1388.7 cm1 in the Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra are ascribed to the vibration of the BN bonds, which also confirm the introduction of the B and N atoms (Figure S3). (15,16) Then, the residual C atoms in BCNNTs were substituted by O atoms in part to yield oxygen-functionalized BONNTs, which was proved by the appearance of BN, BO, and NO bonds as shown in Figure S4. In the O-1s XPS spectrum (Figure S5), the peak at 533.5 eV is assigned to the B(OH)xO3x species and the peak at 532.1 eV results from the O bound to B or N atoms (BNxOy). It is noted that another peak at about 532.9 eV belongs to the OO species, which might generate after O-substituted adjacent CC atoms. (1720) Moreover, the increase in oxygen content also provides evidence for O substitution (Table S3). A carbon sulfur analyzer, an oxygen nitrogen hydrogen analyzer, and an inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES) were used to further identify the B, C, N, and O content accurately. The mass fraction of C in BONNTs decreased from 24.06 to 0.096% and the O content increased to 20.07% accordingly (Table S4). The presence of carbon in BCNNTs seems to be important for the construction of the OO species. As shown in the B and N K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra (Figure S6), the presence of the BO peak at 193.8 eV and the NO peak at 403.0 eV also provides evidence for O substitution. After the gradual substitution of B, N, and O, the morphology of CNTs is reserved and the wall of the nanotube is observed clearly (Figures 1b and S7). The energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) mapping results corroborate that B, N, and O distribute uniformly in the walls of BONNTs (Figure 1cf).
Figure 1
Figure 1. Synthetic strategy and characterizations of BONNTs. (a) Schematic diagram of the progressive substitution synthesis of BONNTs from CNTs. (b) Integrated differential phase contrast-scanning transmission electron microscope (iDPC-STEM) image of BONNTs, the inset: high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) STEM image. (cf) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding EDS mapping images of O, B, and N.
Catalytic Performance
The catalytic performance of OPDH was conducted in a fixed-bed reactor with propane and oxygen as feeding gases and nitrogen as the balance gas (C3H8/O2/N2 = 2/1/2, weight hour space velocity (WHSV) of 12,000 L kg1 h1). The propane conversion over temperatures of BONNTs and O-free BNNTs (Figures S8S10) are displayed in Figure 2a. Propane conversion of 6.6% is achieved at 400 C for BONNTs, and the propane conversion increases with temperature increase. Then, 44.3 and 64.4% propane conversion are obtained at 500 and 525 C, respectively. However, pure BNNTs show relatively low catalytic activities of 17.3 and 23.0% propane conversion at 500 and 525 C. According to the Arrhenius equation, the lower apparent activation energies represent the higher reaction rate, inducing excellent catalytic activity. BONNTs possess apparent activation energies of 78.88 KJ mol1, much lower than that of pure BNNTs (95.54 KJ mol1) (Figure 2b), consistent with the catalytic performance. Moreover, olefin selectivity (including C3= and C2=) can reach 75.5% at 525 C, which means an olefin yield of 48.6%. As can be seen from Figure 2c and Table S1, this value is higher than that of any catalysts reported hitherto, including vanadium-, molybdenum-, carbon-, boron-based materials, and so on.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Catalytic performances of BONNTs. (a) The dependence of propane conversion on temperature over BONNTs and BNNTs. (b) Arrhenius plots for the apparent activation energies of BONNTs and BNNTs. (c) Comparison of BONNTs with the established OPDH catalysts at their maximum reported yield. See Table S1 for specific values. (d) The durability of BONNTs. Reaction conditions: feed gas in the ratio of C3H8/O2/N2 at 2/1/2, WHSV = 12,000 L kg1 h1.
More importantly, BONNTs demonstrated good catalytic stability. As shown in Figure 2d, the propane conversion remains above 29% and olefin selectivity remains above 80.0% even after 150 h. In general, water (the product in OPDH) can lead to active centers the dissolution of the boron catalysts to some extent. (21) Firstly, the BONNT catalysts are hydrophobic (Figure S11), which is significant in OPDH. As tested, although compared with BNNTs (134.93), the contact angle of BONNTs decreased to 120.03, it is still hydrophobic. Furthermore, BONNTs obtained by oxygen treatment may have a solid construction and be water tolerant. To prove this, the water-resistance test was performed. As shown in Figure S12, a slight improvement of propane conversion is achieved owing to the introduction of the OH groups into BONNTs after oxygen treatment, (10) although a little bit decrease in the apparent activation energy happens in BONNTs (Figure S12b). It further manifests that water has little effect on the ODPH reaction catalyzed by BONNTs. In addition, the morphology of BONNTs was maintained well after 150 h (Figure S13).
Identification of Active Centers
For the sake of finding the differences in the catalytic performance of BNNTs and BONNTs, the two utilized catalysts were characterized completely. As shown in the O K-edge XANES spectra of BNNTs (Figure 3a), the peaks at around 533.0 and 535.9 eV are assigned to the OB and B(OH)xO3x species, respectively, in agreement with the previous report. (8) Differently, except for the BO peak (533.0 eV), there is a peak centered at 536.4 eV in used BONNTs (Figure 3b). This peak can be divided into two peaks, B(OH)xO3x at 535.9 eV and OO species at 536.7 eV. (22) In addition, the OO species are also corroborated by the FTIR spectrum (Figure 3c). The vibrations ascribing to the OO species at 927 and 1033 cm1. (2325) Two peaks at 561 and 665 cm1 are BOB vibration peaks, which might come from the oxygen-containing terminal groups of nanotubes, and the isolated C atoms in BCNNTs substituted by O atoms. However, the vibrations of the OO species and the BOB configuration are hard to recognize in the FTIR spectrum of BNNTs (Figure S14). To directly visualize the coordination environment of the B/N/O atoms, integrated differential phase contrast-scanning transmission electron microscopy (iDPC-STEM) was employed (Figures 3d and S15). The B, O, and N atoms can be distinguished by the luminance of the atoms, (26,27) and the luminance of atoms follows the order O > N > B. As shown in Figure 3e, three profiles were drawn in the square dotted box of Figure 3d, and Gatan Microscopy Suite 3.5.0 (GMS 3.5) was used to distinguish the B, N, and O atoms according to their comparative strengths. The B/N/O atoms were marked with yellow/blue/red balls (Figures 3e and S16). As seen from the O atoms, the wall of BONNTs exists in three main forms: occupying individual B sites, individual N sites, and adjacent B/N sites in the hexatomic ring. The O atoms occupy individual N sites and adjacent B/N sites predominantly, which agrees well with the theoretical calculation in previous literature. (28) The OO species generated by substituting the adjacent B/N sites are the main forms of O atoms. Moreover, the BO3 sites are also observed. Therefore, the C content in BCNNTs is very important, which may facilitate the formation of more OO species.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Structural characterization of used BNNTs/BONNTs. (a,b) O K-edge XANES of spent BNNTs and BONNTs. (c) The FTIR spectrum of spent BONNTs. (d) The iDPC-STEM image of spent BONNTs. (e) Three profiles labeled on the iDPC-STEM image of BONNTs by GSM 3.5; the B, N, and O atoms marked based on the contrast intensity of profiles. The image of BONNTs marked with the B, N, and O atoms (yellow, blue, and red balls, respectively).
Mechanism Studies
Based on the above characterization, the effect of the OO species on performance deserves further study. As shown in Figure 4a,b, the yields of C3= and C2= increase with the increase in the temperature of the two aforementioned catalysts and the olefins yield is higher on BONNTs. But, as you can see from the selectivity changes (Figure S17), the side reactions are also correspondingly increasing. For both catalysts, the dominating byproduct is C2=, another valuable olefin product. And below 475 C (Figure 4c,d), the gap of C3= yield and formation rate between BNNTs and BONNTs shows a steady increasing trend. To explore the reaction pathways of C3= products at B(OH)xO3x and OO centers, respectively, density functional theory (DFT) was employed (Figure 5). For the large diameter (2040 nm) nanotubes, the curvature is negligible, which is acceptable from previous reports. (29,30) With the introduction of the OO species distorting the local environment (BNB = 120), NON and BOB increase to 123.49 and 137.78, respectively (Figure S18). The OO species, like a nonmetallic single cluster catalyst site, (31,32) disrupt the ideal sp2 hybridization of the B/N atoms, which enables active C-H bonds of propane. The OPDH reactions over OO species (Figures S19 and 5a) initiate with the absorbed propane and dissociate to B-C3H7 and OHO subsequently. Then, a H atom from the primary carbon is abstracted to form C3H6 and H2O without any barriers. Another propane molecule dehydrogenates to propene on the remaining O atom of the OO species afterward. The formed C3H6 and H2O desorb in a thermodynamically favorable manner, and oxygen vacancies are generated. Note that a series of thermodynamically downhill steps occur for the OPDH reactions over the OO species. Despite the OPDH reactions over B(OH)xO3x sites (Figures S20 and 5b) are energy doable, a barrier of 1.305 eV needs to surmount for the formation of *OOH from *H and *O2. (33) Therefore, the OO active center is more conducive to propane dehydrogenation to propylene than the B(OH)xO3x center.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Catalytic products analysis. The dependence of propene (C3=) and ethylene (C2=) yields on temperature with (a) BNNTs and (b) BONNTs. (c) The comparison between BNNTs and BONNTs on propane C3H6 yield over temperature (below 475 C). (d) The comparison of C3H6 formation rate over temperature (below 475 C).
Figure 5
Figure 5. Reaction paths to C3= products. (a) DFT-calculated energy profile over the OO species. (b) DFT-calculated energy profile over the B(OH)xO3x center.
Furthermore, as shown in Figure 4a,b, the olefin selectivity of BONNTs still showed a steady upward trend above 475 C. For BNNTs, the selectivity of propylene has been maintained at more than 85% consistently (Figure S15). That is, the yield of C2= is much low, less than 3%, which will not be analyzed in depth. However, the selectivity of C3= is reduced for BONNTs, and that of C2H4 and CH4 is correspondingly significantly increased (Figure 6a). To be specific, the selectivity of C3= drops from 76.2 to 62.8% and then to 39.1%, while that of C2= increases from 18.1 to 25.5 and to 36.4%. The C2H4 formation rate also increases with temperature, and 0.094 mol g1 h1 can be achieved at 525 C (Figure 6b). It should be noted that the COx yield is consistently below 1.3%, indicating that deep oxidation does not happen on BONNTs. The improvement of C1 and C2 production represents that direct cracking of propane occurs and aggravates with temperature elevating. (34) The CC cleavage of propane ought to yield equal molar C1 and C2 products. The C2/C1 ratio, however, is higher than 2 in the byproducts, suggesting that partial C1 products may transform into C2 products via oxidative coupling of the methane (OCM) reactions. The product distribution of methyl reactions calculated by the equations reported by Wang et al. is displayed in Figure S21. (35) Methyl generated by the CC bond cleavage of propane increases with temperature increase for BONNTs. The methyl group converts into ethylene at lower temperatures, and the C1 raises at lower temperatures, which might be caused by the OCM reaction suppressed at elevated temperatures. (35)
Figure 6
Figure 6. C2= products analysis on BONNTs. (a) The product distributions and propane conversion. (b) C2H4 formation rate over temperature (above 475 C) with BONNTs.
In the light of DFT results (Figure 7), there are two pathways to ethylene over OO species: direct cracking of propane and OCM paths. In Figures S22 and 7b, the thermodynamically downhill step for *C3H7 dehydrogenation to *C3H6 and *H is shown. Then, a barrier of 0.848 eV has to be overcame for the first CC cleavage to produce C2H4 (g), *CH2, and *H. The *CH2 and *H transferrers into methyl with a barrier of 0.797 eV subsequently. However, a barrier of 4.142 eV is needed for first abstracting the hydrogen from the propyl on B(OH)xO3x sites (Figure S23). (33) Subsequently, the path of the heteroatom(X)-induced H-transfer along the *CH2CH2CH3 chain was evaluated. As shown in Figure S24, it needs to overcome 2.115 eV to extract hydrogen from the propyl over B(OH)xO3x site, which is lower than the energy barrier for dehydrogenation (4.116 eV) in Figure S23 but higher than the barrier over OO species (Figure 7). Thus, the direct propane cleavage reaction prefers to occur on OO species, which conforms with the catalytic performance. In addition, as mentioned earlier, the OCM reaction path starting with the methyl group was calculated (Figures S25 and 7d). After two CH3 being co-adsorbed, *CH2 and *H are produced through a spontaneous process on OO species. It necessitates overcoming a barrier of 0.386 eV for CC coupling. Then the resultant ethyl is dehydrogenated with O (s) to form C2H4 and H2O, which is a thermodynamically downhill step. Correspondingly, there is an O vacancy, which is then supplemented by O2. This gives an explanation for the nonequivalent ratio of C2 and C1 products in the experiment.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Reaction paths to C2= products. (a) DFT-calculated energy profile for the direct cleavage of propane over OO species. (b) DFT-calculated energy profile for the OCM reaction over OO species.
To further shed light on the reaction mechanism over the OO center, experiments based on BONNTs treated by propane and oxygen alternation were performed. The coordinate peak intensity of BO and NO in B and N K edge XANES weakens evidently after 30 min of propane treatment (Figure S26), meaning that the oxygen species in the BONNT catalysts can be consumed during the OPDH reaction. Similarly, the BO and NO bond information also became faint in the B/N 1s XPS spectrum (Figure S27). To confirm which kind of O-containing groups contributed to oxygen wastage, O K edge XANES was performed (Figure 8a). All the intensity X-ray absorption peaks decrease after propane treatment, and the peak assigned to the OO species descended more pronouncedly, indicating that the OO species reacted with propane more actively. In addition, the peak intensity of O 1s recedes due to oxygen lapse during propane treatment. The peak area of the B(OH)xO3x and OO species decreases 65.4 and 69.4% when compared with fresh BONNTs (Figures 8b, S28 and Table S5). The peak area of OB/ON (BNxOy) shrinks only 36.2%. It can also be seen from Table S6 the variation trends of C and O in these three samples (pristine, C3H8-treated, O2-treated BONNTs). In addition, the vibrations of the OO species (927 and 1033 cm1) and B(OH)xO3x are hard to distinguish after propane treatment in the FTIR spectra, which agree well with the XANES and XPS results (Figure S29). The iDPC-STEM technique was also used to observe the oxygen vacancy visually (Figures 8c and S30). The adjacent dark spot pair further verifies that the OO species can react with propane during propane treatment. The OPDH catalytic performance corresponding to the loop tests was also performed at 475 C. The initial propane conversion rate is 30.5%, which then decreases to 8.5% after propane treatment for 30 min (Figure 8d). The deteriorated catalytic performance suggests that the active centers in the BONNT catalyst are consumed during propane injection. When C3H8-BONNTs were exposed under the oxygen conditions for 30 min, the conversion rate reached about 30% again. The XANES, XPS, and FTIR spectra of O2-BONNTs also provide evidence for performance recovery. Three cycles of propane and oxygen-alternated treatment were conducted and the same regularity was obtained. The loop tests demonstrate that the B(OH)xO3x and OO species are the main active centers for OPDH reaction. In addition, it should be noted that the OO active site is static, which is easy to observe experimentally. In a dynamic reaction, the radicals (e.g., BO•) may appear, which need to be studied further in future.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Studies on the reaction mechanism over OO active centers. (a) The O K-edge XANES spectrum of the BONNT catalyst with propane and oxygen-alternated treatments. (b) The O 1s XPS spectrum of BONNTs with propane and oxygen-alternated treatments. (c) The iDPC-STEM image of the BONNT catalyst after 30 min of propane treatment. The labeled B/N/O atoms and vacancies are based on Figure S28. (d) The propane conversion loop tests. Reaction conditions: feed gas C3H8/O2/N2 with the ratio of 2/1/2, WHSV = 12,000 L kg1 h1, 475 C.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this work, we reported a novel OPDH catalyst, BONNTs, with abundant OO species through a progressive substitution strategy. It contained B(OH)xO3x and OO active centers, which were confirmed by XPS, XANES FTIR, and iDPC-STEM characterization studies. As tested in OPDH, the BONNT catalyst exhibited a much high propane conversion of 64.4% (525 C), 2.8 times that of BNNTs, and 48.6% olefin yield (525 C) and 150 h stability (475 C), which outmatched the reported boron-based catalysts hitherto for OPDH. The catalytic tests, propane and oxygen alternate treatment experiments, and spectra measurements provided substantial evidence for the roles of the above-mentioned two active centers. The OO center contributes to producing both C3= and C2= olefins, while the B(OH)xO3x one prefers to make C3=. The theoretical calculations further revealed that the OO active center plays a key role in improving C3= production, which goes through a dehydration pathway with a lower energy barrier to yield propylene in contrast with B(OH)xO3x. DFT analysis further uncovered that there were two pathways with a low barrier to yield ethylene on the OO active centers in BONNTs, namely, direct cracking of propane and oxidative coupling of methyl (OCM). Therefore, it is believed that the design and construction of OO species inside catalysts will be an effective strategy to improve the catalytic activities in OPDH.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 