I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Size-Dependent Structures and Catalytic Properties of Supported Bimetallic PtSn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation Reaction
Abstract
Heterogeneous bimetallic catalysts are widely used in industrial processes, and the structural features of the bimetallic catalysts have profound impacts on their properties in numerous catalytic processes. Bimetallic nanoclusters with particle sizes 1 nm have shown better performances in various catalytic reactions in comparison to conventional bimetallic nanoparticles with sizes above 1 nm. Despite the progress made in recent years in the synthesis and catalytic studies of bimetallic nanoclusters, achieving a fundamental understanding of the structurereactivity relationships at the molecular and atomic levels remains challenging because of the complexity of the bimetallic catalysts with particle sizes 1 nm. In this work, we have studied the structural features of supported bimetallic PtSn species with different sizes (0.6 to 1.6 nm), which is shown to be associated with the size-dependent formation process of bimetallic PtSn species according to theoretical modeling and experimental studies. Furthermore, the catalytic consequences of their size-dependent structural features are reflected in the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, in which the subnanometer PtSn clusters are more active than the PtSn alloy nanoparticles.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:PtSn catalysts zeolite propane dehydrogenation DFT calculations size effects
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Supported bimetallic catalysts represent a vital class of industrial catalysts used in numerous catalytic transformations such as catalytic reforming of naphtha, dehydrogenation of light alkanes, selective hydrogenation, and oxidation reactions, whose catalytic performances are tied closely with their structural features (e.g., particle size, chemical composition, morphology, metalsupport interaction, etc.). (1) In most of the practical bimetallic catalysts, the active sites are based on bimetallic nanoparticles with particle sizes >1 nm. In recent years, bimetallic nanoclusters with particle sizes 1 nm have attracted increasing attention in the catalysis community because of their unique structural features and catalytic properties in various catalytic reactions in comparison to conventional bimetallic nanoparticles with sizes >1 nm. (2)
From a fundamental point of view, the rational design of bimetallic catalysts relies on establishing reliable structurereactivity relationships. (3) In principle, the knowledge accumulated with monometallic systems on the particle size effects can at least partly be translated into bimetallic systems. (46) However, when translating the lessons regarding the particle size effects learned from the monometallic to bimetallic systems, some difficulties are encountered (7,8) and these challenges are mostly associated with the more complicated structural features of the bimetallic catalysts, such as chemical composition and the spatial distribution of the two metals within the bimetallic particles. (913)
Taking bimetallic PtSn catalysts as an example, which are the functional components in the industrial catalysts for dehydrogenation of alkanes into corresponding alkenes, different types of PtSn bimetallic species (SnOx-modified Pt clusters, small alloyed PtSn nanoparticles, and PtSn intermetallic nanoparticles) have been reported as efficient catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reaction. (5,1418) As shown in Figure 1, the PtSn species prepared in those studies exhibit distinct geometric structures (particle size and morphology), compositions (Pt/Sn ratio), and chemical states of Sn species. Therefore, it will be interesting and also important to make a direct comparison among these PtSn species in terms of the structural features and discuss the structurereactivity relationship. (19,20) The insights at the atomic level into the structural features of the bimetallic entities will guide us to the rational upgrading of bimetallic Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic illustration of different types of Pt and PtSn catalysts. (a) Pt nanoparticle, (b) PtSn alloy nanoparticle, (c) PtSn intermetallic nanoparticle with ordered structure at the atomic level, (d) subnanometer Pt cluster, (e) subnanometer PtSn cluster, and (f) PtSn nanocluster with sizes of 1 nm. Different types of bimetallic PtSn entities show different particle sizes, and more importantly, the spatial distribution of Pt and Sn within the bimetallic particle is different.
In this work, we have prepared three supported PtSn catalysts with different average particle sizes (ranging from 0.6 to 1.6 nm) and studied the structural features of the bimetallic PtSn species by electron microscopy and spectroscopy characterizations. We have found that the nature of the PtSn interaction in the bimetallic PtSn species depends on their particle size, which could be associated with the size-dependent formation process of supported PtSn species according to theoretical modeling and experimental studies. Furthermore, the catalytic consequences of their size-dependent structural features are also reflected in the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, showing that the subnanometer PtSn clusters are nearly 1-order magnitude more active than the PtSn alloy nanoparticles.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Generation and Characterization of PtSn Species with Different Sizes
In this study, three representative silica supports (amorphous SiO2, dealuminated Beta zeolite, and pure-silica MFI zeolite) are chosen as the solid carriers with different textural properties for accommodating the same amount of Pt and Sn species, resulting in the formation of supported PtSn catalysts with different structural features (see the Experimental Section for details). After the introduction of Pt and Sn species, the solid catalysts were subjected to reduction treatment at 600 C by H2, giving to the formation of PtSn/SiO2-600H2, PtSn/Beta-600H2, and PtSn/MFI-600H2 samples.
The structural features of three supported PtSn catalysts are characterized by high-resolution high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) imaging. As shown in Figure 2a,b, alloyed PtSn nanoparticles with average particle size of 1.6 nm are formed in the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample. Some of the PtSn alloy nanoparticles show ordered structure (see Figure 2c), while some of the nanoparticles show disorder structures, due to their small sizes (see more HAADF-STEM images in Figure S1). The use of Beta zeolite as the support instead of amorphous silica can effectively decrease the size of PtSn particles from 1.6 nm down to 0.9 nm, leading to the formation of PtSn bimetallic nanoclusters (see images in Figures 2eh and S2S4) in the PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample. The formation of PtSn nanoclusters with smaller particle sizes could be ascribed to the better stabilization effect of the microporous channels of Beta zeolite in comparison to the open-structure amorphous SiO2. The intimate interaction between Pt and Sn in the nanoclusters is confirmed by the energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) analysis (see Figure S5). These structural features are consistent with the PtSn and PtZn nanoclusters with sizes of 1 nm in the reported studies. (14,15,21) In the case of PtSn/MFI-600H2, subnanometer PtSn clusters located in the microporous channels are visualized in the high-resolution HAADF-STEM images with sizes of 0.50.6 nm (Figures 2k and S6S8). Due to the weak stability of the MFI zeolite under the beam, we could not record useful EDS spectra of the isolated PtSn clusters encapsulated in MFI zeolite (see discussion in Supplementary Note 1). Nevertheless, the results from electron microscopy characterizations suggest that the support has a great influence on the dispersion and stabilization of tiny PtSn species.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Structural characterization of different supported PtSn catalysts by transmission electron microscopy. (ac) HAADF-STEM images of the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample. (d) Size distribution of the PtSn particles in the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample. (eg) HAADF-STEM images of the PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample. (h) Size distribution of the PtSn nanoclusters in the PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample. (ik) HAADF-STEM images of the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample. (l) Size distribution of the subnanometer PtSn clusters in the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample. The average particle sizes of each sample were calculated by the following equation:
=
Σ

3
Σ

2
.
To acquire further insights into the structures of PtSn species formed on different supports, we have studied the coordination environment of Pt species by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). According to the X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES) results, the Pt species are in a metallic state in all three supported PtSn samples after being reduced by H2 at 600 C (see Figure 3a). The coordination environments of the Pt species in the three samples are characterized by extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy. As shown in the EXAFS spectra (Figure 3b) and the fitting results in Table 1, the PtPt bonding is observed in the three samples, but the PtPt coordination number depends on the support. Taking into account the larger coordination number of PtPt bonding in the PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample than that in the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample, the size of the Pt clusters in the PtSn/Beta should be larger than those in the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample, which is consistent with the observation in HAADF-STEM images. In the case of PtSn/SiO2-600H2, both PtPt and PtSn bonding can be observed in the Pt L3-edge EXAFS spectra, inferring that Pt and Sn species probably exist in the form of alloyed PtSn nanoparticles. The formation of PtSn alloy nanoparticles in the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 is also supported by the shift of the Pt L3-edge XANES spectra to a higher energy level in comparison to the Pt foil and the low binding energy of the Pt 4f XPS peaks in comparison to the other PtSn samples (see Figure S9a). (22,23)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Characterization of different supported PtSn catalysts by X-ray absorption spectroscopy. (a) Pt L3-edge XANES and (b) EXAFS spectra. (ce) Wavelet transformation of the Pt-edge EXAFS spectra of the PtSn/MFI-600H2 (c), PtSn/Beta-600H2 (d), and PtSn/SiO2-600H2 (e) samples.
Table 1. Fitting Results for the Pt L3-Edge EXAFS Data for the Various Reduced PtSn Samplesa
sample path distance CN σ2 ΔE0 R-factor
PtSn/MFI-600H2 PtPt 2.76(1) 5.0(6) 0.005(1) 7.7(15) 0.9%
PtSn/Beta-600H2 PtPt 2.77(1) 6.7(8) 0.005(1) 9.1(16) 1.7%
PtSn/SiO2-600H2 PtPt 2.72(2) 3.1(7) 0.007(2) 4.1(10) 2.2%
PtSn 2.69(1) 4.3(7)
aS02 was fixed as 0.82, which was obtained from Pt foil. Data range: 3.5  k  14 Å1, 1.9  R  3.3 Å. The number of variable parameters is 4, out of a total of 9.2 (2ΔkΔR/π) independent data points.
It should be noted that the formation of metallic PtSn bonding is only observed in the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample while the PtSn bonding is absent in the PtSn/Beta-600H2 and PtSn/MFI-600H2 samples. (24,25) According to the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results, it is deduced that the metallic Pt clusters in PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample should interact with partially reduced Sn species (in the form of Sn(II) species, as shown in Figure S9b), resulting in the formation of bimetallic PtSn species without metallic PtSn bonding. (5,26) In the case of PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample, the reduced Sn species mainly exist as Sn(II) while only a very small portion of Sn(IV) can be reduced to metallic Sn0. In contrast, a considerable amount of metallic Sn0 is present in the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample, indicating the higher degree of reducibility of Sn species in the PtSn/SiO2 sample.
Based on the above structural characterizations, we can conclude that the particle sizes of the PtSn species follow this order: PtSn/SiO2-600H2 > PtSn/Beta-600H2 > PtSn/MFI-600H2, implying that PtSn species tend to grow into larger particles on supports with larger pore sizes. Furthermore, for the PtSn species with larger particle sizes, a higher degree of PtSn intimacy is observed, implying that PtSn interaction seems to be more feasibly formed with larger PtSn particles.
Tracking the Formation of PtSn Bimetallic Nanoparticles
In order to elucidate the origin of the structural discrepancies among the PtSn species formed on different supports, it is necessary to track the structures of the Pt and Sn species during the catalyst preparation procedure. For that purpose, we choose PtSn/SiO2 as the model system because of the higher stability of SiO2 than the Beta and MFI zeolite support under the e-beam irradiation, which offers the possibility of using EDS to analyze the composition of the PtSn species. Besides, subnanometer PtSn species could be considered as the intermediate species formed in growth process of PtSn nanoparticles. In this sense, the insights obtained with the PtSn/SiO2 system could be translated into the understanding of PtSn/Beta and PtSn/MFI systems.
Initially, after impregnating Pt and Sn precursors (H2PtCl6 and SnCl4) on silica, a pristine PtSn/SiO2-Air sample was obtained after calcination in air. At this stage, the Pt and Sn species exist as atomically dispersed species on the support in the oxidized form (see Figures 4a and S10). The reduction of the oxidized Pt and Sn species into PtSn bimetallic nanoparticles has been followed by characterizing the PtSn/SiO2 sample obtained at different reduction temperatures. According to the HAADF-STEM results shown in Figure 4, metal clusters with Pt as the predominant composition appear on the silica support after reduction at 100200 C (see Figures S11 and S12). The average size of the Pt particles gradually grows from 0.8 to 1.6 nm as temperature increases (as shown in Figures S13S15) and alloyed PtSn nanoparticles are detected by the EDS analysis and XRD patterns at temperatures above 200 C and the percentage of Sn in the alloyed PtSn nanoparticles increases with the reduction temperature (see results in Figures S16S19). These experimental observations suggest that the formation of bimetallic PtSn nanoparticles originate from a step-wise reduction of oxidized Pt and Sn species. In other words, the reduction of the Sn(IV) species in the precursor could be to some extent promoted by the Pt particles because of their hydrogen spillover effect. (27)
Figure 4
Figure 4. Structural evolution of Pt and Sn species in the PtSn/SiO2 sample during the reduction treatment. (af) HAADF-STEM images of the PtSn/SiO2 sample obtained after reduction treatment at different temperatures. (a) Initial PtSn/SiO2-Air sample obtained after calcination in air, (b) PtSn/SiO2-100H2 sample obtained after reduction by H2 at 100 C, (c) PtSn/SiO2-200H2 sample after reduction by H2 at 200 C, (d) PtSn/SiO2-300H2 sample after reduction by H2 at 300 C, (e) PtSn/SiO2-400H2 sample after reduction by H2 at 400 C, and (f) PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample after reduction by H2 at 600 C.
Theoretical Modeling of the Formation of Bimetallic PtSn Entities
To understand the formation process of PtSn bimetallic species on silica, we have constructed a cristobalite SiO2(111) surface to model the location and the evolution behavior of Pt and Sn species during the catalyst synthesis procedure (see Supplementary Note 2 and Figure S20). Considering that the metal nanoclusters/nanoparticles originate from the molecular metal compounds (H2PtCl6 and SnCl4), we have first modeled the interaction between silica support and the mononuclear Pt and Sn species.
When the Pt or Sn atoms are placed on the O-terminated SiO2(111) surface, both of them can be well stabilized according to their adsorption energies on several potential adsorption sites (see Figures S2122 for information about the structural configurations and Table S1 for calculation results). However, after hydrating/hydrogenating the surface oxygen atoms on the silica surface to hydroxyl groups, a drastic decrease in the adsorption energies and migration barriers of Pt and Sn atoms on the OH-terminated SiO2 surface is observed (see Tables S12, Figures 5a, and S23 for information about the structural configurations), implying that the mobility of Pt and Sn atoms will be greatly promoted when the silica surface termination turns from O to OH. Indeed, these calculation results are consistent with the experimental observations, in which the migration and subsequent sintering of Pt and Sn species need to be driven by thermal reduction treatment. (28) Moreover, the stabilization of the Pt atom is weaker than the Sn atom as implied by the lower adsorption energy of the Pt atom, which is also in line with the lower temperatures required for the reduction of Pt precursors than the Sn precursors observed in experimental studies. (29,30)
Figure 5
Figure 5. Theoretical modeling of the evolution of Pt and Sn species on the silica surface. (a) Energy profile of Pt/Sn migration on the cristobalite SiO2(111) surface with O and OH terminations. Atomic structures of Pt adsorption on the cristobalite SiO2(111) surface with (b) OH termination and (c) on Sn in Si defect. (d) Energy barriers of H2 dissociation on the isolated Pt atom, Pt11Sn2, and Pt20Sn17. (e) Adsorption energy of H on isolated Pt and Sn atoms, Pt11Sn2, Pt20Sn17, and terminal O on the cristobalite SiO2(111) surface under two surface H coverage conditions (θH = 0 and 1). Schematics of the growth mechanism for particles with (f) large size and (g) small size.
The activated Pt atoms can migrate on the silica surface until they are trapped in a binding site with higher stabilization energy than that with the surface hydroxyl groups, or the Pt atoms may also sinter into Pt clusters/nanoparticles by forming PtPt bonds. Our calculation results suggest that the Pt atom can be efficiently stabilized by the single-site Sn anchored on the silica surface via PtSn bonding (see Figure 5b,c). Subsequently, more Pt atoms can migrate to this site to form Pt clusters/nanoparticles anchored on the Sn site to form bimetallic PtSn clusters/nanoparticles, and the stabilization effect of Sn for small Pt particles will be quite remarkable when the Pt loading is low (e.g., <0.05 wt %). When the Pt loading reaches a considerable level, the size of the Pt clusters will be mostly controlled by their microenvironment, i.e., the zeolite framework. (26,31) In any case, Sn can serve as the anchoring site for the stabilization of the primarily reduced Pt species. The formation of Pt ensembles will accelerate the production of activated H due to the higher capability of agglomerated Pt particles than isolated Pt atoms for H2 activation (see the calculation results shown in Figure S24). The supply of activated H species to the surrounding environment of the Pt ensembles through hydrogen spillover is therefore enhanced, which elevates the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the silica surface. (32,33) Consequently, the reduction and migration of Pt species on the silica surface can be further promoted, until the system reaches an equilibrium state, in which the reduction and agglomeration of available Pt species is completed.
The formation of Pt clusters/nanoparticles on the support will increase the number of hydroxyl groups on the silica surface, which facilitates the reduction and migration of Sn species. (34) Once the Sn atom approaches a Pt cluster, the calculated energy barrier for subsequent migration to the perimeter of the Pt cluster with PtSn bonds formation is only 0.034 eV (see Figure S25), which is almost negligible in comparison with the mononuclear Sn diffusion barrier on silica surface (see Figure 5a). It should be emphasized that the strong tendency of the migration of the Sn atom to the Pt cluster relies on a high coverage of hydroxyl group on the SiO2(111) surface, otherwise, the Sn atom will be deeply trapped in the support. In other words, the migration behavior will be greatly influenced by the capability of the Pt clusters/nanoparticles for activation and spillover of H2.
The above analysis has already indicated that H2 can be easily activated on Pt clusters/nanoparticles. Then, we have further studied the spillover of activated H species from the Pt clusters/nanoparticles to the silica surface. As shown in Table S3, the pathway for the spillover of H from Pt to the silica support depends on the structural features and the surrounding environment of the Pt particles on the silica surface. In the case of Pt nanoparticles (corresponding to the supported Pt rod model), the barrier for the spillover of H from Pt to O on the silica surface is <0.2 eV. It could be inferred that the Pt particle with a larger size has more terminal O nearby, so there is a greater capacity of spillover than the Pt12 cluster and a higher probability to initiate the migration of Sn species to the Pt particles, resulting in the formation of bimetallic PtSn particles with an intimate PtSn interaction.
It should be noted that, with the further alloying of Sn atoms into the Pt particles to form bimetallic PtSn particles, the activation of H2 and the hydrogenation spillover could be altered in comparison with the pristine monometallic Pt particles. The H affinity on the Sn site is systematically weaker than Pt site (Figure 5e). Based on the BellEvansPolanyi principle, it can be inferred that Pt sites are mainly responsible for the dissociation of H2 into activated H species (Figure 5d). The presence of Sn on the external surface of Pt particles will effectively block the H migration pathways. As a result, the number of activated H species transferred from the Pt particles to the silica support will gradually decline after formation of substantial PtSn interaction, which is not favorable for attracting more Sn species to the Pt particles. As illustrated in Figure 5e,f, under given conditions, an equilibrium state will be achieved when the bimetallic PtSn particles cannot supply enough activated H species to drive the migration of Sn species. For Pt particles with larger particle sizes (see Figure 5e), they should be able to attract more Sn atoms to form bimetallic PtSn nanoparticles due to their higher capacity for producing activated H species and accommodating Sn atoms in the Pt matrix. In the case of small Pt clusters (see Figure 5f), the H binding is too strong due to the size effect (see Figure 5e), which leads to a significantly lowered thermodynamic driving force for H migration from the Pt cluster to the silica surface and, consequently, a considerably elevated migration barrier (see Table S3). As illustrated in Figure 5g, the restrained supply of activated H kinetically impedes the migration of Sn species, resulting in Pt-rich PtSn clusters with a low percentage of Sn. (35)
The declined capability for H2 activation with bimetallic PtSn nanoparticles has also been confirmed by experimental isotopic H-D exchange studies. As shown in Figures S26 and S27, a volcano-shaped curve of the production rates of HD over various PtSn species is observed. The PtSn/SiO2-200H2 sample obtained after reduction treatment at 200 C gives the highest capability for H2 activation, while the PtSn/SiO2 sample obtained after reduction treatments at higher temperatures is much less active. This observation clearly suggests that the alloying of Pt and Sn species is not favorable for H2 activation, and consequently, the alloying process could be declined or even terminated as the increase of the percentage of metallic Sn0 in the PtSn bimetallic nanoparticle.
Explanation of the Support-Dependent Structural Features of PtSn Species
Combining the results from theoretical and experimental studies, we can conclude that the Pt nanoparticles (>1 nm) have a higher capacity for accommodating Sn species than subnanometer Pt clusters, resulting in the formation of PtSn alloy nanoparticles, while the Pt clusters with small particle sizes tend to form Pt-rich clusters with low Sn contributions. In other words, differences in the particle size will further influence the chemical composition and the PtSn bonding interaction within the bimetallic PtSn species.
We then have attempted to translate the lessons learnt with the PtSn/SiO2 system to PtSn supported on Beta and MFI zeolite. As indicated by the results based on electron microscopy and spectroscopy characterizations, the sizes of Pt particles supported on Beta and MFI are smaller than those supported on SiO2. Indeed, lower degrees of PtSn bonding are observed by the EXAFS and XPS characterization results. It could be argued that the different structural features of the PtSn entities formed on three supports (amorphous SiO2, pure-silica Beta, and MFI) are not only caused by the variation of the particle size but also influenced by the textural properties of the supports. However, a good consistency is found between the experimental results obtained with the samples prepared in this work and the theoretical modeling results. Furthermore, the empirical rules proposed in this work are also well in line with the prior literature studies, in which intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles with particle sizes above 1.5 nm can be feasibly formed while PtSn metallic bonding is less observed in subnanometer PtSn clusters. (5,26,3638) In this context, we tentatively postulate that the size of the Pt particles could be a critical factor that controls the Pt-Sn interaction in the PtSn bimetallic species.
As demonstrated in literature studies, there are numerous strategies to modulate the size of Pt species, such as tuning the Pt-support interaction and imposing constraints to Pt particles by trapping them in a porous matrix. (18,26) Considering the relationship between the Pt particle size and the PtSn interaction revealed by the above results, it should be plausible to synthesize bimetallic PtSn species with varied Pt-Sn intimacy by tuning the Pt particle size. Moreover, we think the lessons derived from the theoretical and experimental study of the formation behavior of bimetallic PtSn particles can be extended to other supported Pt-based bimetallic catalysts (e.g., PtZn, PtGa, PtIn, etc.) to understand their structural features, especially the spatial distribution of the metal elements in the bimetallic particles. (3941)
Catalytic Performances of PtSn Species
With the three supported PtSn catalysts in hand, we attempt to study their catalytic performances for a model reaction involving the activation of CH bonds, i.e., the PDH reaction. It should be noted that the main purpose of this work is to elucidate the size-dependent structures and catalytic properties of supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts, instead of developing novel Pt-based catalysts with superior performances for the PDH reaction. Therefore, the catalytic conditions were selected for discriminating the catalytic behavior of the three PtSn catalysts.
As shown in Figures 6a and S28, the PtSn/MFI sample exhibits the highest specific activity (measured under kinetic region) for dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, while the PtSn/Beta-600H2 and PtSn/SiO2-600H2 samples give the medium and lowest activity, respectively. Notably, the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample comprising subnanometer PtSn clusters shows almost 1-order magnitude higher specific activity than the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample comprising alloyed PtSn nanoparticles. Moreover, the PtSn/MFI-600H2 delivers the highest initial selectivity to propylene while the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample gives the lowest selectivity to propylene due to the formation of hydrogenolysis products (see Figures 6b and S29). (42,43) We have employed CO-chemisorption to determine the exposed Pt sites in different PtSn catalysts. As shown in Table S11, the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample exhibits a reasonable number of exposed Pt sites, while the PtSn/Beta-600H2 and PtSn/SiO2-600H2 samples show a very low number of exposed sites, which is largely departed from the size distributions (0.9 nm for PtSn/Beta-600H2 and 1.6 nm for PtSn/SiO2-600H2) according to the electron microscopy and spectroscopy characterization results. The underestimated exposed Pt sites in the PtSn/Beta-600H2 and PtSn/SiO2-600H2 samples measured by CO chemisorption could be associated with the hindered CO adsorption on bimetallic PtSn nanoparticles/nanoclusters caused by the modification of the electronic properties of Pt by PtSn bonding. (36,4448) In this sense, we think it is appropriate to compare the catalytic performances by the initial reaction rates normalized to the total Pt mass in the catalyst (a meaningful criterion for practical applications) or the exposed metal sites derived from average particle sizes to avoid the large deviation in CO chemisorption measurement. As shown in Figure S30, the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample exhibits the highest specific activity than the other two PtSn samples, regardless of the calculation methods.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Catalytic performances of different supported PtSn catalysts for the PDH reaction. (a) Initial specific activities calculated based on the mass of Pt in the solid catalysts and the exposed surface sites derived from particle size distributions, (b) initial selectivity to propylene, and (c) deactivation rate of different supported PtSn catalysts for the PDH reaction. (d) Comparison of the structures of supported PtSn catalysts obtained after pre-reduction treatment at 600 and 700 C, respectively.
Stability is also an important criterion for evaluating catalytic performance in the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene. As can be seen in Figures 6c and S31, the deactivation constants were measured under the same activation conditions and at similar initial conversion levels. Among the three catalysts, the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 gives the lowest deactivation constant while the PtSn/Beta-600H2 gives the highest. The low deactivate rate observed with the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample is consistent with the prior studies, which show the high capability of PtSn alloy nanoparticles for resisting deactivation. (36)
One may argue that the support could also influence the structures of the PtSn species. Therefore, we have prepared a series of PtSn/MFI-600H2 samples by varying the amount of Sn introduced in the synthesis mixture of PtSn/MFI-600H2 samples (see the Supporting Information for details). When the Sn loading is decreased from 0.9 to 0.4 wt %, PtSn/MFI-LowSn-600H2 sample shows a similar morphology as the PtSn/MFI sample, in which the Pt species exist as subnanometer Pt clusters with similar size distribution as those in the PtSn/MFI sample (see Figure S32). Due to the low Sn loading, it can be anticipated that the interaction between Pt clusters and Sn species in the PtSn/MFI-LowSn-600H2 sample will be less profound in comparison to the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample. However, a further increase of the Sn loading to 2.4 wt % causes the formation of bimetallic nanoparticles in the PtSn/MFI-HighSn-600H2 sample (see HAADF-STEM images in Figure S33). The formation of the PtSn nanoparticles should be associated with the decrease of crystallinity of the MFI zeolite support, weakening the zeolite frameworks stabilization effect for confining the subnanometer Pt clusters. The PtSn/MFI-LowSn sample shows a high initial specific activity for the PDH reaction and a fast deactivation rate (see Figures S34 and S35), while the PtSn/MFI-HighSn-600H2 sample shows a low initial specific activity and a relatively low deactivation rate. The high initial activity and fast deactivation of the PtSn/MFI-LowSn-600H2 sample can be ascribed to the insufficient PtSn interaction and thereby a high probability of hydrogenolysis of propane (the reason causing the low initial selectivity) and coke deposition due to undesired over-dehydrogenation of propylene into carbon (the reason causing the fast deactivation). (49) The catalytic behavior observed with the PtSn/MFI samples with different Sn loadings is in line with the PtSn catalysts on different supports, indicating that subnanometer PtSn clusters with smaller sizes and proper PtSn bonding interaction are more superior catalysts for the PDH reaction than the PtSn entities with larger sizes and the PtSn clusters with insufficient PtSn bonding interaction.
Theoretical Studies on the Size-Dependent Catalytic Performance of PtSn
The distinct catalytic performances observed with a series of supported PtSn catalysts for the two model reactions encourage us to employ theoretical calculations to understand the structurereactivity relationship. First, we have studied the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene (PDH) on various types of PtSn structures by DFT calculations. As shown in Figure S36, the supported Pt11Sn2 cluster is constructed as a model for the subnanometer PtSn clusters in the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample. The PtSn nanoclusters in the PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample are simulated with two plausible models (Pt20Sn17 and Pt22Sn15 models with different exposed Pt ensembles), while the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample is represented by a Pt3Sn(111) alloyed surface. As described in Figures 7 and S37a, two possible reaction pathways for the PDH reaction are considered for the DFT calculations. For both reaction pathways, the Pt11Sn2 cluster exhibits a very low energy barrier for the PDH reaction, especially for Pathway 1, which involves the activation of CH at the C1 position of propane as the initial step. Notably, the activation of the second CH bond at the C2 position of propane and the subsequent desorption of H2 can proceed with negligible energy barriers on Pt11Sn2 clusters (see Figure S38), which are consistent with the superior reactivity of subnanometer PtSn clusters observed experimentally. For Pt3Sn(111) alloyed surface, both reaction pathways give high energy barriers (>0.6 eV) for activation of the primary and secondary CH bonds in propane, inferring the low reactivity of PtSn alloyed nanoparticles. In the case of PtSn bimetallic nanoclusters with sizes of 1 nm, which are made of 40 atoms, the catalytic reactivity depends greatly on the geometric structures. The Pt20Sn17 cluster shows high energy barriers (0.8 eV) for breaking the CH bonds in propane, regardless of the reaction pathways. In this model, the Pt atoms are well separated by the Sn atoms and the calculations indicate that CH bond activation is largely suppressed on the isolated Pt sites. (50) However, once a local Pt-rich domains are present on the cluster (as demonstrated with the Pt22Sn15 model), the dissociation of the primary CH bond in propane becomes much feasible, leading to enhanced reactivity for the PDH reaction than in the Pt20Sn17 model. These calculation results are consistent with the moderate activity observed with the PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample because the PtSn nanoclusters with sizes of 0.9 nm have fewer Pt ensembles than the PtSn clusters with sizes of 0.50.6 nm in the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample because of the higher PtSn intimacy in the PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample. The calculation results are further supported by the temperature-programmed surface reaction profiles (see Figure S39), which shows a lower light-off temperature observed with the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample than the PtSn/Beta-600H2 and PtSn/SiO2-600H2 samples, inferring a higher capability for CH activation on small PtSn clusters.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Atomic structures of computational models compared in this work. (ad) Pt, Sn, Si, lattice O, terminal O, C, and H atoms are shown as light gray, dark cyan, ivory, red, purple, dark gray, and light blue, respectively. (e) Gibbs free energy profile of pathway 1 for the propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The Gibbs free energy profile of pathway 2 is given in Figure S37b. Geometries of intermediates and transition states are summarized in Table S5.
To validate the significant role of the Pt domain for the PDH reaction suggested by the theoretical calculations, a comparative study of two PtSn particles with similar sizes but slightly different chemical compositions should be carried out. Considering that the reduction of Pt and Sn species is driven by reduction treatment by H2, we should be able to modulate the PtSn bonding via tuning the post-synthesis treatments. In this sense, the reduction temperature is increased from 600 to 700 C and the structural characterization results indicate that the PtSn/MFI-700H2, PtSn/Beta-700H2, and PtSn/SiO2-700H2 samples obtained after H2 reduction at 700 C show similar morphological features (see HAADF-STEM images in Figures S40S42) as those obtained at 600 C. As shown in Figure S43, In the case of PtSn/MFI-700H2 and PtSn/SiO2-700H2, minor changes are observed in terms of the size distributions of the PtSn species because of the structural stability of PtSn clusters/nanoparticles in these two samples (see further discussion in Supplementary Note 3 in terms of the structural changes of PtSn entities after high-temperature reduction treatment). In the case of PtSn/Beta-700H2, the average particle sizes of the PtSn nanoclusters slightly increase from 0.9 to 1.1 nm, which could cause the improvement of Pt-Sn intimacy and the degree of Pt separation by Sn in the PtSn bimetallic nanoclusters supported on Beta zeolite. The impacts of the structural features of the PtSn entities in the three samples are reflected in the catalytic consequences (Figures 6c and S44), which indicate a lower deactivation rate of the PtSn/Beta-700H2 sample and the nearly unaltered deactivation rates of the PtSn/MFI-700H2 and PtSn/SiO2-700H2 samples. Besides, the decreased initial activity of the PtSn/MFI-700H2 is also consistent with the theoretical calculations, which infers the high energy barriers for the PDH reaction on isolated Pt sites separated by Sn.
The deactivation of supported Pt catalysts under the reaction conditions of alkane dehydrogenation is usually associated with the coke deposition, which could be caused by the over-dehydrogenation of the propylene. Theoretical calculations indicate that the adsorption of propylene is favorable on Pt11Sn2 and Pt22Sn15 than that on Pt20Sn17 and Pt3Sn(111) surface (see Figure S37c), implying that the tendency of over-dehydrogenation of propylene and subsequent coke deposition is considerably more significant with the PtSn/MFI-600H2 and PtSn/Beta-600H2 samples. Consequently, the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 sample shows lower deactivation rates than the PtSn/MFI-600H2 and PtSn/Beta-600H2 samples, and the temperature pre-reduction treatment at 700 C can effectively alleviate the deactivation of PtSn/Beta sample because of the formation of PtSn clusters with a higher degree of Pt-Sn interaction (i.e., alloying between Pt and Sn).
The morphological features of the used PtSn catalysts have been studied by electron microscopy. The HAADF-STEM images show that their structural features almost remain unaltered after one cycle of the PDH test (see Figures S45S47). However, after three consecutive reaction-regeneration cycles, only PtSn/MFI-600H2 and PtSn/Beta-600H2 remain stable while severe sintering of Pt occurs in the PtSn/SiO2-600H2 catalyst (see Figures S48S53), which could be related to the low stability of Pt species on silica during the oxidationreduction treatments at high temperatures.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this work, we have shown the formation mechanism of bimetallic PtSn clusters and nanoparticles on silica supports, whose size distributions fall in the most typical regime of the particle sizes (0.52 nm) in practical heterogeneous bimetallic catalysts. The different particle sizes of the Pt species account for the size-dependent structures of the PtSn entities and then further affect the catalytic properties. Based on the above discussions and previous literature studies, we hereby attempt to give some guiding principles for designing supported PtSn catalysts for dehydrogenation of light alkanes: (1) small Pt entities with surface under-coordinated Pt sites are more active than facet Pt sites; (2) Pt ensembles formed by a few Pt atoms are more active than the isolated Pt atoms separated by Sn; and (3) there should be an appropriate size of the Pt domain to balance the reactivity and selectivity. (19)
These lessons could be further translated to other Pt-based bimetallic or even multi-metallic catalysts, (17) though the choice of the second metal as the co-catalyst (for instance, using Cu, In, Zn, or Ga instead of Sn) may influence the optimum size of the Pt sites. (16,5153) Taking into account the very broad applications of bimetallic catalysts in the chemical industry, the lessons from this work might be extended to other heterogeneous bimetallic catalysts, providing atomic-level insights on the generation of bimetallic sites on solid carriers and the potential consequences in catalytic properties.
Experiments
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Synthesis of the PtSn/SiO2 Sample
The PtSn/SiO2 sample was prepared by impregnating 2.5 g of the SiO2 support (supplied by Sigma-Aldrich, with a surface area of 550 m2/g) with an aqueous solution (50 mL, containing 74 mg SnCl4·5H2O), followed by drying at 60 C overnight and calcination in static air at 560 C for 8 h. The powder was then impregnated with an aqueous solution (50 mL, containing 18.3 mg H2PtCl6 and 28.6 mg KCl). After the impregnation of the metal precursors, the solid product was calcined at 350 C in static for 2 h, resulting in the formation of a PtSn/SiO2-Air sample. The reduced PtSn/SiO2 sample was obtained by reducing the PtSn/SiO2-Air sample with H2 at different temperatures.
Synthesis of the PtSn/MFI Sample
The PtSn/MFI sample with subnanometer Pt and Sn species confined in an MFI zeolite structure was prepared by a one-pot synthesis approach. Specifically, 6.2 g K-free tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH, 40 wt %, supplied by Alfa-Aesar, product code 017456) was mixed with 3.84 g K-containing TPAOH (20 wt %, supplied by Sigma-Aldrich, product code 254533-100G) and 18.2 g distilled water at room temperature. Then, 8.24 g tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS, from Alfa-Aesar) was added into the above TPAOH solution and keep stirring at room temperature for 6 h. Afterward, 90 mg SnCl4·5H2O, 300 μL H2PtCl6 aqueous (0.15 M), and 300 μL ethylenediamine were added into above solution. The resultant solution was then divided equally into two portions and transferred to a Teflon-lined autoclave, followed by heating in oven at 175 C for 96 h under static conditions. After the hydrothermal process, the solid product was isolated by centrifugation, washed with distilled water and ethanol, and then dried at 60 C overnight. Finally, the solid sample was calcined in static air at 560 C for 8 h and then at 600 C for 2 h. The PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample was obtained by reducing the calcined PtSn/MFI with H2 at 600 C for 3 h.
The PtSn/MFI-HighSn and PtSn/MFI-LowSn samples were prepared by a similar approach as the normal PtSn/MFI sample, except for adjusting the amount of SnCl4·5H2O. Specifically, the synthesis of the PtSn/MFI-HighSn sample required the addition of 180 mg of SnCl4·5H2O, while the synthesis of the PtSn/MFI-LowSn sample required the addition of 45 mg of SnCl4·5H2O. The surface area of the PtSn/MFI-600H2 sample is 380 m2/g.
Synthesis of the PtSn/Beta Sample
The PtSn/Beta sample was prepared by sequential incipient wetness impregnation. First, dealuminated Beta (Si-Beta, Si/Al > 2000, with a surface area of 410 m2/g) was prepared by treating the commercial Beta zeolite (supplied by Zeolyst, with a Si/Al ratio of 38) with HNO3 at 140 C for 6 h. After the treatment with HNO3, the solid product was recovered and then calcined at 400 C in air for 2 h. In total, 2.5 g of the Si-Beta support was impregnated with an aqueous solution containing 74 mg SnCl4·5H2O, followed by drying at 60 C overnight and calcined at 560 C for 8 h. The powder mixture was then impregnated with an aqueous solution containing 18.3 mg H2PtCl6 and 28.6 mg KCl. After the impregnation of the metal precursors, the solid product was calcined at 350 C in static for 2 h. The PtSn/Beta-600H2 sample was obtained by reducing the calcined PtSn/Beta with H2 at 600 C for 3 h.
Characterization
The chemical composition of the catalysts was determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry with a PerkinElmer Optima 2100DV instrument. X-ray diffraction patterns of the catalysts were collected on a Bruker D8 advanced X-ray diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation (λ = 0.15418 nm) in the 2θ range of 550 with a scan rate of 3 /min. Electron microscopy measurements were conducted on a JEOL-2100F microscope at 200 kV and Cs-corrected FEI Titan Themis operating at 300 kV. The powder samples were suspended in CH2Cl2 and dropped onto holey carbon-coated copper grids, which were dried under an IR lamp. Hydrogen/deuterium (H2-D2) exchange was performed on a CatLab (Hiden, UK) station equipped with a mass spectrometer. Specifically, about 7 mg sample was loaded in a quart tube and pre-reduced by a H2 atmosphere for 3 h, followed by cooling to 40 C. Then, the gas flow was switched into a mixture containing 10 mL/min 10%H2/Ar and 4 mL/min D2. The outlet gas was analyzed by a mass spectrometer. For comparison, the relative concentration of HD/H2 was employed to evaluate the capability of H2 dissociation for different samples. For the TPSR measurement, a 100 mg sample was loaded in a quart tube and pre-reduced at 600 C by a H2 atmosphere for 3 h, followed by cooling to 50 C under helium flow. Then, the feed gas was switched to C3H8/N2 and a programmed heating to 650 C with a ramping rate of 10 C/min was started. The outgas was monitored by a mass spectrometer, and the signals of m/z = 29, 41, and 2 are responded to C3H8, C3H6, and H2, respectively.
Ultraviolet (UV) resonance Raman spectra were recorded on a UV Raman spectrometer (LabRAM HR800) with a CCD detector at room temperature using the laser line at 325 nm emitted from the He-Cd laser as the excitation source with a power of 30 MW. XPS measurement was performed on a Thermo Scientific K-Alpha system using monochromic Al Kα as an X-ray source. The sample was first pre-treated at 600 C in H2 for 3 h and transferred into sample chamber through the glovebox. The binding energy was calibrated using the adventitious carbon C 1s peak (284.8 eV). XAS measurements of the Pt L-edges were performed at 1W1B beamline in the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility and BL11B beamline in the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility. Double crystal Si(111) was used as a monochromator. All the samples were prepared as uniform disks with 6 mm diameter. Background subtraction was performed using a spline to minimize the non-EXAFS features below 0.1 nm in the Fourier transform, which was performed with k3-weighted data. All the XAS spectra were analyzed with ATHENA and ARTEMIS software. Several scans were acquired at each measurement step to ensure spectral reproducibility and a good signal-to-noise ratio. The value of E0 for Pt foil (11,564 eV) was used for energy alignment.
Catalytic Test
The catalytic evaluation was performed in a continuously fix-bed reactor (lined with quartz tube, internal diameter = 6 mm) under atmospheric pressure. Before the reactions, the catalysts were pre-treated at 600700 C for a given time in a H2 atmosphere and then cooled to 600 C. Then, the gas flow was changed to a N2/propane mixture (5 mL/min propane and 16.5 mL/min N2). The products were analyzed online by an Agilent 7890B GC equipped with automated sampling valves. The hydrocarbon products were separated by an HP-Plot Al2O3 capillary column and detected by a flame ionization detector. The propane conversion (Xprop), propylene selectivity was calculated as follows:
prop
(%)=
[propane]
in
[propane]
out
[propane]
in
×100
[
]
[
]
Product selectivity(%)=
[HC]
out
[propane]
in
[propane]
out
×100
[
]
The [propane]in and [propane]out represent the concentration of propane in the inlet and outlet gas, respectively. The [HC]out refers to the concentration of product (methane, ethane, ethene, and propylene) in the outlet gas.
The first-order deactivation constant (kd) was employed to evaluate the durability of the catalyst during PDH, which is calculated by the following equation:
d
=
ln(
1

prop

prop
)ln(
1
0
prop
0
prop
)
×100
(
t
)
(
0
)
where Xprop0 and Xpropt indicate the propane conversion at different times of stream (t). To obtain the comparable deactivation constants, the Xprop0 and t were fixed at 20% and 2 h for each catalyst, respectively.
For the consecutive reaction-regeneration cycles, the deactivated catalyst was regenerated by calcination in air at 600 C for 2 h, followed by reduction by H2 at 600 C for 3 h. After the reduction treatment, the atmosphere was then switched to the composition for the PDH reaction.
DFT Calculations
All DFT calculations were performed via the Vienna ab initio simulation package (54,55) hooked with Atomic Simulation Environment. (56) Core electrons were described using the projected-augmented wave method. (57) The KohnSham wave functions were expanded on a plane-wave basis with a kinetic energy cutoff of 300 eV to describe valence electrons. The exchangecorrelation term was described by the generalized gradient approximation using the PerdewBurkeErnzerhof functional. (58) A softer version of pseudopotential was used for O (O_s) to balance the computational cost and chemical accuracy. Long-range van der Waals interaction was corrected within the method by Tkatchenko and Scheffler, where the dispersion coefficients and damping function are derived from the charge density. The Brillouin zone was sampled only on the Gamma point for geometry optimization. All geometries were considered optimized when the force on each atom was <0.03 eV/Å. The structure and energy of transition states were optimized with the climbing-image nudged elastic band method. (59,60) Gibbs free energy corrections for adsorption/desorption steps are summarized in Table S4.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 