I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Rigorous Oxidation State Assignments for Supported Ga-Containing Catalysts Using Theory-Informed X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy Signatures from Well-Defined Ga(I) and Ga(III) Compounds
Abstract
Gallium-based heterogeneous catalysts originally developed for commercial use in propane dehydroaromatization have been explored extensively as potential replacements for Pt- and Cr-based catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation for on-demand propylene production. In a large number of experimental and theoretical studies, active sites with a variety of Ga nuclearities, coordination environments, and oxidation states have been proposed. Isolated Ga(I) ions are often invoked, despite the scarcity of well-defined molecular species and their well-documented instability. In this study, we investigate the appearance of a high-intensity, low-energy white line at the Ga K-edge upon reduction of Ga/HZSM-5 by H2 at a temperature of ca. 500 C, accompanied by a dramatic reduction in the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) intensity. In contrast, Ga/γ-Al2O3 does not show such behavior. In order to lay a rigorous foundation for characterizing these types of systems and to establish experimental signatures for the elusive Ga(I) oxidation state, we recorded Ga K-edge X-ray absorption spectra [including high-energy-resolution fluorescence detection-X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (HERFD-XANES)] for several well-defined molecular and crystalline Ga(I) compounds. XANES is essential to establishing the presence of Ga(I), despite the overlap in edge energies with organoGa(III) compounds, because Ga(I)-containing oxide materials show very weak EXAFS scattering. Compared to the XANES of trigonal Ga(III)-containing materials, Ga(I) spectra display a significantly more intense white line feature. Theoretical simulations agree well with this experimental observation and reveal that the strong XANES intensity originates from the superposition of transitions to several empty, nearly degenerate p-like states. These signatures provide compelling evidence for assigning the intense white line and dramatic loss of EXAFS intensity in Ga/HZSM-5 to the near-quantitative reduction of Ga(III) to Ga(I), while the weaker white line and conventional EXAFS signal of Ga/γ-Al2O3 point to, at most, a minor fraction of Ga(I) sites.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:XANES StoBe gallium catalyst oxidation state propane dehydrogenation
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Supported gallium (Ga) oxides have been widely investigated for their ability to catalyze a variety of energy-related chemical transformations, including the dehydrogenation and dehydroaromatization of light alkanes (primarily ethane and propane), (13) the selective catalytic reduction of nitric oxide, (46) and the partial oxidation of methane. (7) In particular, the ability of supported Ga oxides to catalyze the selective dehydrogenation of propane has inspired much interest in the catalysis research community, as the need for on-demand propylene has increased driven by the use of alternative feedstocks (e.g., shale gas). The catalysts are often prepared by wet impregnation of a high surface area oxide with a Ga compound, followed by calcination. Under the conditions typically used to achieve these reactions, the Ga species proposed to exist or co-exist include [GaO4], (5) [Ga2(OH)4]2+, (7) [Ga2O(OH)2]2+, (7) [Ga3O2(OH)3]2+, (7) [GaO]+, (8,9) [Ga2O2]2+, (7,10,11) [GaH]2+, (1216) [GaH2]+, (12,13,1517) and [Ga]+. (8,9,13,15,16,1823) With the exception of [Ga]+, all proposed active sites are Ga(III) species. Nevertheless, the two Ga oxidation states may interconvert during catalytic hydrocarbon transformations, and the enhanced performance of Ga-containing catalysts after their high-temperature reduction in H2 (22,24,25) has inspired extensive discussion of the possible participation of both Ga(I) sites (18) and Ga(III) hydrides. (24,26)
Identification of [Ga]+ sites in heterogeneous catalysts under reaction conditions relies primarily on X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). For example, Ga/H-ZSM-5 has been studied both for the shape-selective conversion of light paraffins to aromatic hydrocarbons and for propane dehydrogenation. The shift in the Ga K-edge that occurs in flowing H2 at ca. 500 C results in an edge energy approaching that of metallic Ga (10,367.0 eV), suggesting the presence of Ga in a low oxidation state. (23) A similar low edge energy was observed in flowing propane at the same temperature, implicating reduced Ga sites in the catalytic activity. Their identification as [Ga]+ sites was inferred from the stoichiometry of their reaction with H2 and by comparison to the X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) of mixed-valent Ga2Cl4. (18) However, the observation of a low energy edge is necessary but not sufficient evidence for [Ga]+. There are significant variations in edge position for the XANES of Ga(III) compounds, depending on the nature of the ligands and the Ga coordination number. For example, the K-edge for three-coordinate Ga(CH2SiMe3)3, at 10,370.0 eV, is 6.5 eV lower than the edge position of six-coordinate Ga(acac)3, although both are clearly Ga(III) compounds. (27) Consequently, the low edge energies observed in Ga-based heterogeneous catalysts under reducing conditions have been suggested to represent the formation of Ga(III) hydrides and alkyls. (12,24) Their formation is also consistent with the stoichiometry of the reaction with H2. (12)
Since XAS is eminently capable of probing Ga structure and oxidation state under reaction conditions, a better understanding of the XAS signatures of Ga(I) will aid in confidently assigning the catalyst spectra. Unfortunately, the literature contains few authentic Ga(I) compounds, and fewer still that have been characterized by XANES. (28,29) Molecular complexes of Ga(I) tend to have limited thermal stability and to show extreme air- and moisture-sensitivity. (3033) Ga2Cl4 is a rare example of a convenient source of authentic Ga(I), (34) consisting of equal numbers of [Ga]+ and [GaCl4] ions, Scheme 1a.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Structures for (a) Ga2Cl4 (Color Scheme: Blue, Ga; Gray, Cl); (b) [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4], Showing One of the Two Ga Sites; (c) [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4], Adapted from Ref (35), Copyright (2019) American Chemical Society; (d) Ga(18-Crown-6)(CF3SO3), Adapted with Permission from Ref (33), Copyright (2020) John Wiley and Sons; and (e) Ga+-β-Al2O3 (Color Scheme: Blue, Ga; Yellow, O; Gray, Al)
Ga(III) compounds typically possess strong covalent bonds, while Ga(I) compounds often have weak, non-directional interactions with their ligands. For example, the Ga(I)Cl distance in Ga2Cl4, at 3.204 Å, is much longer than that for Ga(III)Cl (2.160 Å). (34) Only a few crystallographically characterized Ga(I) materials have no Ga(III) component. Two such compounds are [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] and [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4]. (32,35) Both contain [Ga]+ centers in a sandwich geometry, being η6-coordinated by arenes at distances of 2.602.68 Å and a F atom associated with the counter-anion interacting weakly with [Ga]+ at 3.03.2 Å (Scheme 1b,c) (note that [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4] contains equal numbers of [Ga(C6H5F)3]+ and [Ga(C6H5F)2]+ sites). In Ga(18-crown-6)(CF3SO3), Ga(I) forms a shorter bond (2.14 Å) to a triflate oxygen, as well as longer bonds to the ether oxygens (2.762.94 Å) (Scheme 1d). (33)
An extended solid containing Ga(I) ions, Ga+-β-Al2O3 (with empirical formula Al10.7Ga1.54Li0.3O17) can be prepared by the reaction of Ag+-β-Al2O3 with Ga(0). (29) The structure, determined by Rietveld refinement of powder X-ray diffraction data, consists of layers of approximate composition Al2O3, separated by about 5 Å and bridged by oxygen atoms. (29) Ga(I) ions are located in a cage-like environment between the alumina layers (Scheme 1e). Ga(I) is weakly coordinated (at 2.39 Å) to three oxygen atoms in one of the layers, with a longer interaction involving an oxygen atom in the opposing layer (3.15 Å) and three oxygen atoms that bridge the two layers (3.29 Å).
Here, we report a quantitative analysis of the X-ray absorption spectra of two heterogeneous Ga-based catalysts, Ga/HZSM-5 and Ga/γ-Al2O3, both of which exhibit low edge energy peaks upon high-temperature H2 treatment. This analysis is based on a rigorous set of both qualitative and quantitative criteria developed here for characterizing the Ga K-edge white line behavior. These criteria were derived from the experimentally observed and computed properties of several Ga(I) molecular complexes and Ga+-β-Al2O3. They are paired with a quantitative investigation of the origin of the distinctive spectral features. We also report the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) of Ga+-β-Al2O3, in order to assess the contribution of Ga(I) sites to the EXAFS signal of a well-defined Ga-containing material whose structure is believed to be closely related to the structure proposed for some heterogeneous catalysts under reaction conditions. Finally, we apply these criteria to the characterization of two authentic heterogeneous Ga catalysts.
Experimental and Computational Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Materials
Several Ga-containing standard materials [Ga2Cl4, GaCl3, Ga(acac)3, β-Ga2O3] were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and used as-received. Ga(CH3)3 (99+%) was purchased from Strem and stored in a N2-filled glovebox. Boron nitride (BN, 99.5%, Alfa Aesar) was used as-received, except when it served as a diluent for air-sensitive solids. Then, the BN was heated at 450 C under dynamic vacuum (0.1 Torr) overnight to remove adsorbed moisture. Anhydrous n-pentane (UHP grade, Glass Contours) was obtained from a distillation-free solvent purification system and stored over molecular sieves (4 Å, Sigma-Aldrich) inside a N2-filled glovebox. [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4], [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4], and Ga+-β-Al2O3 were synthesized according to published methods. (29,32,35) The solid Ga standards were diluted with BN to ca. 2 wt % Ga (for conventional XANES) or 0.5 wt % Ga [for high-energy-resolution fluorescence detection (HERFD)]. Liquid Ga(CH3)3 was diluted with n-pentane inside a N2-filled glovebox and flame-sealed in a capillary.
The materials used in Ga catalyst syntheses were γ-Al2O3 (208 m2/g, pore volume 0.43 mL/g, Strem), Ga(NO3)3 (99.9%, Sigma-Aldrich), citric acid (99.5%, Sigma-Aldrich), H2O (HPLC Grade, Fisher), ammonium hydroxide (EM Science), and NH4-ZSM-5 (425 m2/g, pore volume 0.85 mL/g, Si/Al = 25, Alfa Aesar). All were used as received, with the exception of NH4-ZSM-5, which was heated at 5 C/min to 550 C in flowing O2 (10 vol %, balanced in Ar, 10 mL/min, UHP, Airgas) and then held at that temperature for 3 h to generate HZSM-5.
Ga/γ-Al2O3 was synthesized following a previously described method. (27) Briefly, Ga(NO3)3 (305 mg, 1.19 mmol) and excess citric acid (305 mg, 1.59 mmol) were dissolved in H2O (1.5 mL). The solution was stirred in air at room temperature with γ-Al2O3 (2.00 g) as the pH was adjusted to (10.0  0.1) with ammonium hydroxide (pH was measured with a Beckman Coulter pH meter). Stirring was continued for 2 h, after which the slurry was heated at 5 C/min to 110 C and then held at that temperature for 3 h to remove most of the water. The resulting powder was calcined by heating at 5 C/min to 550 C in flowing O2 (10 vol %, balanced in Ar, 10 mL/min) and then held at that temperature for 3 h. Ga/HZSM-5 was synthesized by incipient wetness impregnation. (12) Ga(NO3)3 (73 mg, 0.28 mmol) dissolved in a volume of H2O (0.83 mL) corresponding to the pore volume was added dropwise to HZSM-5 (0.975 g). The resulting solid was dried and calcined following the same procedure as for Ga/γ-Al2O3.
X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy
XAS spectra at the Ga K-edge (10,367.0 eV) were recorded at the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, which operates at 3.0 GeV with a current of 500 mA. Conventional XAS data were acquired at beamlines 2-2, 7-3, and 9-3 in transmission mode, using three N2-filled ionization chambers in series as detectors. Samples were mounted between the first and second ionization chambers, under a protective atmosphere of He in a cryostat (at either 10 K or room temperature, as noted). Energy calibration was achieved by simultaneously recording the spectrum of β-Ga2O3, for which the energy of the first maximum in the first derivative is 10,375.1 eV. (12,27)
HERFD-XANES measurements were made at beamline 6-2, using a seven-crystal Johann-type spectrometer. (36) To minimize self-absorption effects, samples were diluted to 0.5 wt % Ga. For these experiments, the β-Ga2O3 spectrum used for energy calibration was remeasured after every fourth sample spectrum.
XAS spectra of Ga/γ-Al2O3 and Ga/HZSM-5 were recorded in situ in transmission mode at beamlines 2-2 and 9-3, using a custom-made reactor. (37) Each sample was heated at 15 C/min in flowing He (30 mL/min, 1 atm) to 550 or 600 C and then held at that temperature for 30 min. XANES data were recorded after flowing H2 (30 mL/min, 1 atm) through the catalyst bed until no more changes were detected.
XAS data were processed and analyzed using the Demeter software package. (38) A linear function was subtracted from the pre-edge region, and then the edge jump was normalized using the Athena program. The χ(k) data were isolated by subtracting a smooth, third-order polynomial approximating the absorption background of an isolated atom. The k3-weighted χ(k) data were Fourier transformed into R-space after applying a Hanning window function. All Fourier-transformed EXAFS spectra are displayed without phase correction.
Computational Details
Theoretical XANES calculations were performed with StoBe 2011, (39) using the PBE exchange-correlation functional. (40) Structural models used in these simulations were generated from reported experimental crystal structures. (29,32,35) For insulating materials, StoBe simulations require only the physically relevant regions of the system, that is, regions around the Ga absorber that can be disconnected from the rest of the crystal by capping using H atoms. This approach produces chemically correct models and has the added advantage of reducing the computational demand. The resulting models are shown in Figures S1S5. In the case of Ga2Cl4, the physically relevant region was embedded in a grid of point charges at the crystallographic positions, in order to better reproduce the local electric fields in this ionic material. (41) The charges were generated using Bader analysis of the electron densities from a VASP calculation of the crystal structure. (42) The charges are 0.58e, +0.77e, and +1.55e for Cl, Ga(I), and Ga(III), respectively. For systems with more than one unique Ga site, independent models were generated for each local environment.
The core-excited Ga atom is represented in the simulations by an all-electron IGLO F-III basis set, which is augmented with 25s, 25p, and 25d diffuse basis functions to better represent the continuum states. For other atoms, the following basis sets and associated effective core potentials (ECP) were used: Ga(+13) (51/41/41), Al(+3) (311/31/1), Cl(+7) (41/31/1), F(+7) (321/311/1), S(+6) (311/211/1), O(+6) (321/311/1), C(+4) (321/311/1), and H (311/1). Automatically generated A3 auxiliary basis sets were used for each atom type. All basis sets and ECPs are those distributed with StoBe.
To enable a qualitative comparison of the observed and theoretical features and in order to assign them to particular electronic structure motifs, the StoBe simulation results were broadened using an ad hoc self-energy, as described previously. (43) It consists of a constant real part, that provides an overall shift of the spectra and a variable imaginary part to broaden the spectra as a function of energy. For each simulation, the constant shift was adjusted to match the position of the corresponding experimental white line (or the lowest energy peak, in the case of a split white line). The minimum broadening (i.e., the minimum of the imaginary part of the self-energy) was chosen to match the experimental width of the corresponding experimental white line peak, while the maximum broadening was adjusted to reproduce the high broadening above the ionization threshold. Finally, an overall scaling factor was applied to match the intensity of the experimental white line peak (or the lowest energy peak, in the case of a split white line). This overall scaling preserves the relative intensities of the theoretical features. We note that these adjustments do not affect comparisons in Table 1, which are computed directly from unadjusted theoretical values relative to a Ga(III) reference.
Table 1. Computed (and Experimental, in Parentheses, Where Available) WL Peak Positions (eV) and Theoretical Transition Intensities (i.e., Areas) for Virtual States, Relative to Ga(CH3)3a
  p/π-like states pd-like states σ-like states
material E  Eref I/Iref E  Eref I/Iref E  Eref I/Iref
Ga(I)-Containing Compounds
[Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] 1.6 (1.5) 3.0 (2.9)        
[Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4] 1.7 (1.4) 3.4 (2.9)        
Ga+-β-Al2O3 2.0 (1.2) 3.1 (2.5)        
Ga(O3SCF3)(18-crown-6) 1.8 2.8        
Ga(O3SCF3) 1.8 3.3        
Ga2Cl4 (Ga(I) sites) 1.8 (1.4) 3.4 (2.4)b        
Ga(III)-Containing Compounds
Ga(CH3)3 0.0 1.0     8.3 0.6
Ga(CH2SiMe3)3 0.2 (0.6) 1.0 (1.0)     4.0 0.1
Ga(t-Bu)2(OC6H2-2,4,6-t-Bu3) 0.5 (0.2) 0.9 (1.0)     3.3 0.3
[Ga(CH2SiMe3)2(OSiPh3)]2 1.7 0.6     3.0 0.4
Ga(CH2SiMe3)3(OP(n-Bu)3) 1.9 0.7     5.1 0.1
[Ga(CH2SiMe3)(OSiPh3)2]2 2.5 0.5     4.2 0.3
[Ga(OSiPh3)3]2 4.1 0.7     4.9 0.5
β-Ga2O3 (octahedral sites) 3.7 0.2     8.3 0.8
β-Ga2O3 (tetrahedral sites) 4.0 0.5     8.2 0.7
Ga2Cl4 (Ga(III) sites)     4.9 2.1    
H2-Treated Ga Catalysts
Ga/HZSM-5 (1.6) (2.3)        
Ga/γ-Al2O3 (1.6) (1.0)        
aIntegrated intensities (i.e., peak areas), in eV. They were obtained by integrating and averaging theoretical intensities, that is, , where the intensity I is the square of the dipole (μ) matrix element between the initial (i) and final (f) states) in the low- and high-energy regions, while visually verifying that the states are indeed mostly p/π-like or σ-like. For the procedure and examples of deconvolution/integration to obtain values from experimental data, see Figures S8S19 in the Supporting Information.
bThis value reflects the integrated intensity for the Ga(I) component of Ga2Cl4 obtained from the difference spectrum (see Figures 2 and S17).
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Characteristics of Ga(I) XANES
To identify XANES features diagnostic of Ga(I), the Ga K-edge XANES was recorded for two Ga(I)-containing solids: Ga+[GaCl4] and Ga+-β-Al2O3, and two well-defined molecular Ga(I)-containing compounds: [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] and [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4]. Their spectra are displayed in Figure 1. The edge position, defined as the inflection point of the step, is similar for all four Ga(I)-containing compounds at 10,371.310,372.0 eV (Table S1). As expected, these energies are considerably lower than that of Ga2O3 (10,375.1 eV, Figure S6).
Figure 1
Figure 1. Comparison of conventional Ga K-edge XANES for four Ga(I)-containing compounds: [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] (blue), [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4] (red), Ga+-β-Al2O3 (purple), and Ga2Cl4 (green), as well as two Ga(III)-containing compounds: Ga(CH3)3 (yellow) and and Ga2Cl4 (green). All spectra were recorded at room temperature, except for Ga2Cl4. Its spectrum was recorded at 12 K to minimize sample decomposition due to radiation damage (see below for details).
The main absorption (or white line, WL) at the Ga K-edge corresponds to the 1s  4p dipole transition. Both molecular Ga(I) compounds show very intense WLs (normalized maximum absorbances of ca. 3.6, corresponding to integrated areas of ca. 15 eV) with edges at 10,371.3 eV, and similar post-white line oscillations, reflecting their closely related molecular structures. Three-coordinate Ga(III) compounds can also have low absorption edge energies, as we and others have remarked. (27,44) For example, the Ga(CH3)3 edge appears at 10,370.8 eV, while the reported edge position for Ga(CH2SiMe3)3 is 10,370.0 eV. (27) Therefore, K-edge absorption energies for some Ga(I) and Ga(III) compounds are too similar to allow formal Ga oxidation state assignments based solely on the edge position. However, the WL intensities are noticeably different: Ga(CH3)3 has a normalized WL absorbance of just 1.4 and an integrated area of 5.3 eV. This comparison suggests that the Ga(I)-containing materials are characterized by both a low K-edge energy (10,372 eV) and an intense white line [integrated area ca. three times greater than for Ga(CH3)3].
Mixed-valent Ga2Cl4 is an interesting case: its XANES exhibits two peaks at 10,373.3 and 10,376.7 eV. They are attributed to the two expected absorption edges of the Ga+[GaCl4] system. However, the intensities of both peaks are ca. 1.5, similar to that of Ga(CH3)3. The Ga(I) contribution to the XANES of Ga2Cl4 was isolated by subtraction of the XANES for GaCl3 [which contains the same [GaCl4] structural motif in its Cl2Ga(μ-Cl2)GaCl2 units]. After re-normalization, the difference spectrum in Figure 2 shows a fairly intense white line with an absorbance of 2.6, consistent with the literature reports. (18,27) While this is slightly lower than the white lines of the molecular Ga(I) compounds, it may not represent the true intensity since XANES measurements for Ga2Cl4 are readily compromised by X-ray beam damage; spectral changes including partial WL suppression have been observed in prior work. (45) In one study, an unexpectedly low intensity for the lower-energy peak was attributed to effects such as Ga(III)  Ga(I) charge transfer and self-absorption. (28) However, we noted that the peak at 10,373.3 eV evolved rapidly during a 30 min measurement at room temperature to become a weak shoulder (Figure S7), consistent with beam-induced change.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Experimental Ga K-edge XANES for Ga2Cl4 (light green), GaCl3 (dark green), and their renormalized difference spectrum (blue). The latter represents the [Ga]+ contribution to Ga2Cl4. Since the Ga(I) occupancy is only 50% in Ga2Cl4, the renormalized difference spectrum is (2 × Ga2Cl4 XANES  GaCl3 XANES).
XANES Simulations for Molecular Ga(I) Arene Compounds
The origin of the extremely high WL intensity in the molecular Ga(I) compounds was investigated by simulating the XANES and examining the nature of the underlying transitions. The experimental and simulated XANES of [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] are compared in Figure 3a. The theory reproduces the overall shape of the experimental spectrum reasonably well, including qualitative agreement for the post-WL features at ca. 10,382 and 10,396 eV. The intense white line of [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] arises from the superposition of three possible 1s  4p transitions. In the weakly coordinated Ga(I) ion, the 4p orbitals are essentially atomic in nature; therefore, the transitions are nearly equivalent in both energy and intensity. The Ga(I) ion is bonded mainly to two aromatic rings, which are nearly parallel to each other. Transitions 1 and 2 both involve 4p orbitals oriented parallel to the planes of the nearest aromatic rings), while transition 3 involves a perpendicular 4p orbital oriented toward the centers of these rings. The energy difference arises because the former pair of orbitals are nearly atomic (non-bonding) in nature with respect to the aromatic rings, while 3 is slightly anti-bonding.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Comparison of experimental (black) and simulated (red) Ga K-edge XANES for (a) [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] and (b) [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4]. The blue and orange lines indicate the positions of the low-energy transitions (shown only up to 10,390 eV, for clarity). The atomically p-like molecular orbitals involved in the main transitions that compose the main peak are shown in the computed structures below each spectrum. Pink, black, and blue spheres represent Ga, C, and F atoms, respectively; H atoms are hidden, for clarity. In (a), the p-like orbitals 1 and 2 (shown in blue/gold) are oriented parallel to the planes of the two nearest aromatic rings, while the p-like orbital 3 is oriented perpendicular to these planes. In (b), the Ga site surrounded by three aromatic rings (blue) has a p-like orbital 1 oriented parallel to the planes of all three aromatic rings, while the p-like orbitals 2 and 3 are oriented perpendicular to these planes. The Ga site coordinated by two aromatic rings (orange) has states 1 and 2 aligned parallel to the rings, while 3 is perpendicular to both.
The higher-energy region of the XANES for [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] consists of a large number of background excitations, all with much lower intensities (24%) compared to the WL. These low intensities are a direct consequence of their origin in states that are localized mostly on the aromatic rings. Couplings to the Ga(I) 4p states, which are necessary for large transition matrix elements, are therefore very small. The very distinct nature of the main and background transitions, in this and in other similar compounds discussed below, is likely a signature of Ga(I) systems with weak metalligand bonding.
Simulation of the Ga K-edge XANES of [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4] also predicts a strong white line feature, Figure 3b. Here, the 1s  4p transitions involving the 4p orbital oriented parallel to the aromatic rings (1 in the three-ring site, 1 and 2 in the two-ring site) are slightly lower in energy, by 0.50.7 eV, than the other transitions, with 4p orbitals directed toward the aromatic rings (2 and 3 in the three-ring site and 3 in the two-ring site). The remainder of the spectrum consists of many low-intensity transitions involving states localized on the aromatic rings.
XANES Analysis of Ga(I) Interacting with Oxygen-Donor Ligands
Since heterogeneous Ga-based catalysts involve Ga ions interacting with an oxide support, we investigated the XANES of two well-defined Ga(I) materials with oxygen donor ligands to better mimic this environment. The experimental Ga K-edge XANES of Ga+-β-Al2O3 shows a slightly lower maximum absorbance (ca. 2.7) for its white line compared to the two molecular Ga(I) compounds (Figure 1). However, the main peak is broad and unsymmetrical, suggesting more than one intense transition. To achieve better energy resolution and to provide more information for comparison with simulation, we recorded the HERFD-XANES. It reveals two strong, closely spaced white line features, Figure 4, black).
Figure 4
Figure 4. Comparison of the experimental Ga K-edge HERFD-XANES of Ga+-β-Al2O3 (black) with its simulated spectrum (red). Blue lines indicate the positions of the low-energy transitions (shown only up to 10,390 eV, for clarity). The molecular orbitals involved in the four main transitions that comprise the main peak are shown below the spectrum. Pink, red, cyan, and white spheres represent Ga, O, Al, and H atoms, respectively. The orbitals (shown in blue/gold) are largely atomically p-like, with 1 and 2 being parallel to the plane formed by the three nearest-neighbor O atoms, while 3 and 4 are oriented perpendicular to this plane.
The simulated XANES of Ga+-β-Al2O3 (Figure 4, red) is consistent with the experimental HERFD-XANES. The most prominent feature is the intense WL, which is dominated by transitions associated with the three Ga 4p orbitals. Ga(I) coordination to the β-Al2O3 framework results in two transitions (1 and 2, associated with the px and py orbitals) with very similar energies and intensities, while the transition associated with the pz orbital splits into two components (3 and 4). The three weak GaO bonds to the nearest neighbors in the alumina framework have larger contributions from the pz orbital, relative to the px and py orbitals. This interaction results in a larger energy difference (ca. 1.2 eV) between the two types of transitions, compared to the simulated spectra of the Ga(I) arenes (ca. 0.7 eV). The former splitting is in reasonable agreement with that observed for the main peaks in the experimental HERFD-XANES (ca. 1.4 eV). Lower-intensity simulated transitions (not labelled) appear just below 1 in energy and between 2 and 3, and are the result of overlap between the Ga 4px and 4py orbitals and O 2p orbitals associated with the alumina framework.
The region beyond the white line is again composed of many low-intensity transitions; however, more features are evident for Ga+-β-Al2O3, compared to the arene compounds. In particular, there are prominent features at 10,379 and 10,386 eV. Peaks at 10,380 eV are expected to correspond to transitions to Ga-ligand σ*-states. (27) They are also evident in the spectrum of Ga2O3 (Figure S6) but are largely absent for the arene compounds, which lack Ga(I) σ-bonds. They appear in the spectrum of Ga+-β-Al2O3 due to GaO interactions involving the closest alumina layer (Figure S1).
[Ga(O3SCF3)(18-crown-6)] is a crystallographically characterized molecular compound whose coordination environment closely resembles some of the structures proposed for oxide-supported Ga(I) materials. Unfortunately, we were unable to obtain an experimental spectrum of the intact molecular compound, due to its instability. (33) Nevertheless, the ability of the simulations described above to predict important features of experimental spectra for other Ga(I)-containing materials and the potential relevance of its spectrum to the catalysts motivated us to simulate its XANES, using the broadening parameters determined for Ga+-β-Al2O3. The spectrum in Figure 5a shows the expected intense WL, generated by the three nearly degenerate p-like states. There is only a small separation (0.3 eV) between the transitions involving the two p-states in the plane of the crown ether (1,2) and the third p-state, oriented along the GaO bond of the triflate ligand (3). This near-degeneracy implies that the strength of the Ga(I) interactions with the crown ether oxygens is essentially equivalent to that with the triflate oxygen. The most noticeable difference is that transition 3 is only about half as intense as transitions 1 and 2, whereas the intensities of all transitions associated with the WL are similar for [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4], [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4], and Ga+-β-Al2O3. In the case of [Ga(O3SCF3)(18-crown-6)], the reduction in intensity for the third transition arises from the interaction with the crown ether, which has the effect of delocalizing the p-orbital associated with 3. This delocalization reduces the dipole matrix element with the core 1s state of the Ga atom by 25%, resulting in 50% decrease in intensity.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Simulated Ga K-edge XANES (red) for (a) [Ga(O3SCF3)(18-crown-6)] and (b) a hypothetical [Ga(O3SCF3)] species. The blue and orange lines indicate the positions of the low-energy transitions (shown only up to 10,390 eV, for clarity). The molecular orbitals in the three main transitions for each case are shown below the simulated spectra, with the top three (orange) corresponding to (a) and the bottom three (blue) corresponding to (b). The molecular orbitals have atomically p-like character, with 1 (1) and 2 (2) being perpendicular to the Ga-triflate bond, while 3 (3) lies along it. Pink, red, blue, yellow, and black spheres represent Ga, O, F, S, and C atoms, respectively; H atoms are hidden for clarity.
To explore the effect of the crown ether ligand further, we also simulated the XANES for a hypothetical one-coordinate [Ga(O3SCF3)] complex (Figure 5b). The 1s  4p transitions perpendicular and along the singular GaO bond are no longer degenerate. The resulting 1.9 eV energy difference causes the WL to split. These results illustrate how the position and intensity of the WL arising from the three possible empty Ga(I) p-states are modulated by the local coordination environment. In the case of [Ga(Ph3CH)2][B(C6F5)4] and [Ga(C6H5F)2.5][Al(OC(CF3)3)4], weak interactions with the ligands have little effect on the final states. However, stronger bonding of Ga(I) to triflate in [Ga(O3SCF3)] results in a very inhomogeneous bonding environment, such that one of the possible final p-states becomes a covalent antibonding state. In contrast, the crown ether in [Ga(O3SCF3)(18-crown-6)] causes the other two atomic-like p-states to more closely resemble this antibonding state, resulting in the near-degeneracy of all three peaks.
XANES Analysis of Mixed-Valent Ga2Cl4
Mixtures of oxidation states and coordination environments are common in heterogeneous catalysts. The impact of an equimolar mixture of Ga(I) and Ga(III) on the appearance of the XANES was investigated by simulating the spectrum of Ga2Cl4 (Figure 6). The simulation generates two resolved WL peaks with similar intensities, each corresponding to one of the two Ga oxidation states.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Comparison of the experimental (black) Ga K-edge XANES of Ga2Cl4 with its simulated spectrum (red). The individual contributions of Ga(I) and Ga(III) ions to the simulated spectrum are shown in purple and green, respectively. Blue and orange lines indicate the positions of the low-energy transitions (shown only up to 10,390 eV, for clarity). The structures below the spectrum show the molecular orbitals involved in the three main transitions that compose each of the two main peaks. Pink and green spheres represent Ga and Cl atoms, respectively. The Ga(I)-based orbitals (13) are largely atomically p-like and nearly degenerate in energy. The Ga(III)-based orbitals (46) are also nearly degenerate, but their local p-character is obscured by their largely covalent nature.
Experimentally, the first two main peaks are separated by 3.1 eV, but theory underestimates their separation by 0.8 eV. The first peak is dominated by transitions to three orbitals (13) that are largely atomically p-like, and nearly degenerate. Consistent with the isotropic Ga(I) environment, their energies differ by only 0.3 eV, and all have similar intensities. The second peak arises from transitions to three Ga(III) orbitals (46) that, unlike the Ga(I) 4p atomic orbitals, have a mostly covalent character (thus their local 4p nature is obscured). Given the local Td symmetry of Ga(III), these orbitals emerge from the triply degenerate t2 manifold and are split by only 0.4 eV. Other features visible in the experimental spectrum at ca. 10,380 and 10,386 eV are mainly associated with Ga(III). Their positions are also underestimated by theory. The different structural models used for the Ga(I) and Ga(III) sites may result in underestimation of the initial state energy difference.
Qualitative and Quantitative Trends in XANES Features
To understand the origins of the different spectral features and their potential predictive value for Ga-based heterogeneous catalysts with unknown active site structures, we examined the energies and intensities (i.e., integrated areas) of the two main virtual state manifolds that form the low-energy (p/π-like, below 10,37610,378 eV) and high-energy (σ-like, above 10,37610,378 eV) regions of the Ga XANES spectrum. The results are shown in Table 1 and Figure 7 for the Ga(I) compounds considered here, as well as for previously studied Ga(III) compounds. (44) To allow for quantitative comparison of theory and experiment, all values are reported relative to the energy and intensity of the lowest energy feature in the XANES of Ga(CH3)3 (Figure 1). This organoGa(III) compound has a trigonal planar Ga center associated with a well-defined p-state, similar to the three p-states discussed above for the Ga(I) compounds. It also has one of the lowest energy features observed for any Ga compound in this or other recent studies, (27,44) making it a logical choice as reference. All Ga(I) compounds show closely grouped p/π-like features, located 1.62.0 eV above the reference energy. Their similarity in energies stems from the weakly bonded nature of the Ga(I) atoms, which produces nearly degenerate p-like states of a largely atomic character. The near-degeneracy results in the high intensity of the Ga(I) WL feature. For comparison, all of the Ga(III) compounds [with the exception of the Ga(III) sites in Ga2Cl4] have only a single p/π-like feature, and a corresponding reduction in intensity of about two-thirds. Thus, high intensity at low energy is characteristic of Ga(I) XANES.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Correlation between computed energies and integrated intensities of WL features, as a function of Ga oxidation state and geometry. All values are referenced to Ga(CH3)3 (see Table 1).
Table 1 also shows the results for several well-defined Ga(III) systems. They are classified by Ga(III) coordination geometry as either trigonal planar [Ga(CH3)3, Ga(CH2SiMe3)3, and Ga(t-Bu)2(OC6H2-2,4,6-t-Bu3)] or pseudo-tetrahedral ([Ga(CH2SiMe3)2(OSiPh3)]2, Ga(CH2SiMe3)3(OP(n-Bu)3), [Ga(CH2SiMe3)(OSiPh3)2]2, and [Ga(OSiPh3)3]2). In our previous study, (44) trends in the relative energy of the p/π-like feature were attributed to a combination of the Ga coordination environment and its core-hole screening, which together result in a broad range of energies (4 eV) for the Ga(III) WL. Trigonal planar Ga(III) compounds have similar, well-defined p-like states, resulting in XANES features at lower energies with similar intensities, while the same features shift to higher energies and have lower intensities for pseudo-tetrahedral Ga(III) compounds. For a given compound, the σ-like states appear at higher energies than the p/π-like ones, with the separation varying from 1 to 8 eV.
The Ga(III) compound with the most ionic local coordination ([Ga(OSiPh3)3]2) has p/π-like and σ-like states that are difficult to distinguish. A similar effect is present in both octahedral and tetrahedral Ga(III) sites in Ga2O3 and in the Ga(III) sites of Ga2Cl4. In the latter, the peak associated with the Ga(III) component (green symbol in Figure 7) is significantly more intense than those for other Ga(III) sites, and it is also 2.5 eV higher in energy than the Ga(I) p/π-like states, thus making it readily distinguishable from them. The higher energy of this peak arises from hybridization of the Ga p with the Ga d states, which are higher in energy and thus raise the energy of the final state. The overall high intensity of this feature arises from the near-degeneracy of three pd-like states, similar to that of the p/π-like states on the Ga(I) sites. However, each of the pd-like states has lower intensity than the reference p/π-like peak [i.e., in Ga(CH)3)3] due to the increased contribution of the less localized d states, which reduces the overall p-like character of the final state and thus their individual intensities. This mixing also makes the relative intensity of the Ga(III) WL smaller than the expected factor of three relative to Ga(I) sites.
These findings have implications for interpreting the XANES of Ga-based catalysts. As observed previously, (27) it is not possible to distinguish between Ga(I) and Ga(III) sites based solely on the presence of a low-energy WL, since the energy regions overlap. Ga(I) is characterized by a high-intensity WL [typically, ca. triple the area of the WL for a trigonal planar Ga(III) compound such as Ga(CH3)3]. We note that the WL area is a more appropriate metric than the peak height, because peak widths can vary considerably depending on the extent of orbital hybridization (see Figures S8, S9, S14 and S15 and Table S2). In addition, measurement parameters (e.g., experimental resolution) can influence the peak height.
In addition to their high integrated absorbance values, the Ga(I) WLs show a very limited range of energies, (10,373  0.5) eV. By comparison, the WL energies of Ga(III) compounds are more variable. This is likely related to the strong preference of Ga(I) for lower coordination numbers (2), (46) compared to Ga(III) with typical coordination numbers from 3 to 6. Consequently, we investigated whether the Ga coordination number, as determined by EXAFS, can provide additional information to identify the presence of Ga(I) in oxide materials.
Ga(I) EXAFS
The Ga K-edge EXAFS of Ga+-β-Al2O3 is compared with that of β-Ga2O3 in Figure 8. The k-space oscillations are weaker for the Ga(I)-containing material than for the Ga(III)-containing oxide, consistent with the high disorder (i.e., large σ2 values) resulting from the weak GaO interactions associated with long distances (2.376 Å, compared to 1.832 and 1.974 Å in β-Ga2O3). (33,47) Notably, the crystal structure of Ga+-β-Al2O3 also exhibits the disorder as large isotropic and anisotropic temperature factors. (29) Consequently, the R-space features are much weaker for Ga+-β-Al2O3 than for β-Ga2O3.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Comparison of the EXAFS for Ga+-β-Al2O3 (recorded at 4 K, purple, and at 298 K, red) and β-Ga2O3 (recorded at 12 K, black) in (a) k3-weighted k-space and (b) non-phase-corrected R-space.
The intensity of the EXAFS signals for Ga+-β-Al2O3 is also strongly temperature-dependent. Figure 8 shows the strong suppression of these signals when the temperature is raised from 4 K to room temperature. Given the very low intensity at the latter temperature, it seems unlikely that Ga(I) sites will contribute significantly to the EXAFS signals of Ga-containing heterogeneous catalysts under the reaction conditions (e.g., ca. 500 C for propane dehydrogenation). Even minor contributions from Ga(III) components will dominate the spectrum. This finding calls into question conclusions about the structures of Ga(I) sites in Ga-based catalysts based on EXAFS fitting. (20,21,48)
Disorder in Ga(I) systems can, in principle, affect the XANES. To assess this possibility, changes in the computed XANES were examined as a function of Ga(I) displacement around its experimental position. The distortions (0.16 Å) were based on u2 values reported for Ga+-β-Al2O3 at 298 K (29) and were applied in the x, y, and z directions. Figures S20S22 show that while disorder can affect the broadening of the WL, it does not change its mean position or intensity. Thus, the qualitative XANES trends discussed above are not affected.
Oxidation States in Ga-Containing Heterogeneous Catalysts
The findings above suggest three criteria that must be satisfied to identify Ga(I) sites when the oxidation state is not known a priori, as is the case for heterogeneous Ga-based catalysts: (1) a low energy XANES peak at (10,373  0.5) eV, with a K-edge position at 10,371.5  0.5 eV; (2) an integrated WL area that is ca. 3× that of Ga(CH3)3; and (3) an unusually weak EXAFS signal. These criteria were applied to two catalytic materials: Ga/HZSM-5 and Ga/γ-Al2O3. After calcination, their spectra were recorded in flowing He at 550 C (Figure 9). The Ga K-edge energies are 10,374.9 and 10,375.5 eV, respectively, consistent with the exclusive presence of Ga(III). Treatment in flowing H2 at the same temperature causes each material to develop a low-energy XANES peak at 10,372.8 eV (with corresponding edge energies at 10,371.5 and 10,371.4 eV, respectively). Both the peak positions and the edge energies lie within the expected range for Ga(I) sites. However, the integrated WL areas, normalized to the corresponding area for Ga(CH3)3, are very different: 2.3 eV for Ga/HZSM-5 compared to just 1.0 eV for Ga/γ-Al2O3. These values suggest that H2-treated Ga/HZSM-5 contains predominantly Ga(I), while H2-treated Ga/γ-Al2O3 contains a much smaller fraction of Ga(I) sites. Comparison of the EXAFS (Figure 9b) further supports these assignments. The EXAFS of Ga/HZSM-5 has very low intensity, consistent with weak interactions between Ga(I) ions and the zeolite framework. In contrast, the EXAFS of Ga/γ-Al2O3 shows significant backscattering intensity from the nearest neighbors, consistent with the presence of a significant fraction of Ga(III) sites.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Comparison of the Ga K-edge (a) XANES region and (b) EXAFS region for Ga/γ-Al2O3 and Ga/HZSM-5, recorded at 550 C in flowing He (1 atm, 30 mL/min), or in flowing H2 (1 atm, 30 mL/min).
Since metalligand interactions are generally much weaker for Ga(I) sites compared to Ga(III) sites, even a minor Ga(III) component may dominate the EXAFS signal. In other words, mean-squared relative displacements involving Ga(I) absorbers are much larger than those involving Ga(III) absorbers, and the resulting extremely broad Ga(I) contributions to the EXAFS may be completely obscured by noise. In such cases, the EXAFS reflects the atomically weighted contribution of only the Ga(III) component. However, the XANES signal for a material containing a mixture of Ga(I) and Ga(III) sites is a weighted average of both contributions. The peak height and area for the low-energy WL will, therefore, be lower for the mixture than for a material containing only Ga(I). If the individual spectra of the Ga(I) and Ga(III) sites are independently known, the fraction of each site in the mixture can be determined from XANES by routine linear combination fitting. However, obtaining accurate reference spectra for a catalytic material may be quite difficult, considering how sensitive the Ga(III) K-edge XANES is to the local coordination environment. Alternatively, if only the spectrum of the Ga(III) site is known, analysis of the difference spectrum can be performed using the criteria described above for Ga(I) XANES (for an example, see Figure S17 and Table S2). Unfortunately, the fraction of Ga(I) sites in catalytic materials is usually unknown.
In such cases, a range for the fractional Ga(I) contribution may be estimated from the experimental WL area. This method is more robust and more versatile than linear combination fitting or difference spectrum analysis, because reference spectra for individual Ga sites are not needed. An algebraic expression relates the minimum and maximum fractions of Ga(I), as long as only Ga(I) and trigonal planar Ga(III) sites contribute to the low-energy XANES peak (i.e., no Ga0 is present). In this case, the integrated area of this peak (AWL) is the weighted average of their fractional contributions, eq 1.
WL
=
Ga(I)
Ga(I)
+
Ga(III),tp
Ga(III),tp
f
f
(1)
Using reasonable values for AGa(III),tp and AGa(I) of 1.0 and 3.0, respectively (based on the results in Table 1), the Ga(I) contents of each catalyst were estimated (Table 2). To estimate the maximum fraction of Ga(I), it was assumed that only Ga(I) contributed to the low-energy XANES peak, so the fraction of trigonal planar Ga(III) (fGa(III),tp) was fixed at zero. The minimum fraction of Ga(I) was estimated by requiring that fGa(I) and fGa(III),tp sum to one, and rearranging eq 1 to solve for fGa(I) (see minimum Ga(I) fraction estimation in the Supporting Information). In Ga/HZSM-5, the fraction of Ga(I) is ca. 70%. In contrast, Ga/γ-Al2O3 may have exclusively trigonal planar Ga(III) hydrides which, like organoGa(III) compounds, are expected to have p/π-like states with low K-edge energies. There is IR spectroscopic evidence for hydrides in similar systems. (13) However, this material could contain up to 34% Ga(I) sites if the Ga(III) sites are not trigonal planar (e.g., tetrahedral).
Table 2. Estimated Ranges for Various Types of Ga Sites in H2-Treated Ga/HZSM-5 and Ga/γ-Al2O3 Catalystsa
  fGa(I) fGa(III),tp fGa(III),other
catalyst minb maxc minc maxb minb maxc
Ga/HZSM-5 0.66     0.34 0  
    0.78 0     0.22
Ga/γ-Al2O3 0     1.0 0  
    0.34 0     0.66
aGa(I), trigonal planar Ga(III), and other types of Ga(III) sites.
bDistribution of Ga sites corresponding to the minimum fraction of Ga(I) sites, estimated by assuming fGa(I) + fGa(III),tp = 1, and solving for fGa(I) (see the Supporting Information for a sample calculation).
cDistribution of Ga sites corresponding to the maximum fraction of Ga(I) sites, estimated by setting fGa(III),tp = 0.
To explore the accuracy of the WL area method in predicting the fraction of Ga(I) in a material containing a mixture of Ga(I) and Ga(III), we also estimated the Ga(I) fraction in Ga/HZSM-5 treated in H2 at 550 C to partially reduce Ga(III) to Ga(I), using linear combination fitting. This method requires two reference spectra with either majority Ga(I) or Ga(III) sites (Figure S23). The Ga(I) reference spectrum was obtained by treating Ga/HZSM-5 in flowing H2 at 600 C (rather than 550 C) to reduce essentially all Ga(III) to Ga(I). The resulting relative WL area is 2.7, indicating that the material contains 8791% Ga(I). A Ga(III) reference spectrum was obtained after cooling the reduced Ga/HZSM-5 to room temperature in flowing He over several hours. Its maximum WL intensity is very low (1.4) and occurs at 10,374.2 eV, above the range expected for Ga(I) (10,373.0  0.5 eV). Furthermore, no low energy peak near 10,373.0 eV could be reliably integrated to estimate the fraction of Ga(I) sites; therefore, this material is assumed to contain mostly Ga(III) sites. The best linear combination fit (Figure S24) is a weighted average of the two reference spectra containing (82.0  0.3)% of the Ga(I) reference and (18.0  0.4)% of the Ga(III) reference (Table S3). If we further consider that the Ga(I) reference spectrum likely contains ca. 90% Ga(I) sites (based on its relative WL area), the linear combination fitting suggests that the fraction of Ga(I) sites in Ga/HZSM-5 treated in H2 at 550 C is ca. 74%, which falls within the range of Ga(I) fractions predicted by the WL area method (6678%). Therefore, the agreement between the two methods is good.
Since the XANES of Ga/HZSM-5 exposed to propane at 530 C was reported to be similar to that of the H2-treated material, (23) it is possible that Ga(I) is an active site for propane dehydrogenation in this catalyst. In contrast, Ga(I) is not a major contributor to the spectrum of reduced Ga/γ-Al2O3; indeed, it is unclear whether Ga(I) sites are present at all. For Ga/γ-Al2O3, the active sites could be Ga(I), Ga(III) hydrides (trigonal planar or tetrahedral), or non-hydride Ga(III) sites. Recent computational models for Ga-catalyzed propane dehydrogenation mechanisms include plausible pathways that may or may not involve Ga(I). One proposed redox mechanism proceeds via protonation of Ga(I) to give a Ga(III) hydride, followed by propane activation to form a Ga-propyl hydride intermediate. (18) Sequential elimination of H2 and β-hydride to give propylene restores the Ga(I) site. However, non-redox pathways involving only Ga(III) hydride and propyl intermediates have also been proposed. (24) It is also possible that Ga(I) sites initiate propane dehydrogenation, and are not regenerated after they are converted to Ga(III) hydrides, Scheme 2.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Plausible Propane Dehydrogenation Mechanisms: Redox Pathway, Involving Alternation of Ga(I) and Ga(III) Oxidation States (External Cycle), and Alternation of Ga(III) Hydride and Propyl Species (Lower Cycle). Another Possibility is That Ga(I) Initiates the Reaction, But the Yellow Cycle Turns over Many Times before the Ga(I) Site is Regenerated
If Ga(I) represents the majority of sites in H2-reduced Ga/HZSM-5, the redox mechanism is plausible for this catalyst. Likewise, the low fraction of Ga(I) sites in H2-reduced Ga/γ-Al2O3 is consistent with Ga(I) not being an active site. Nevertheless, active sites are often minority species. Identification of the major Ga oxidation state does not require that it be the active site, nor is the failure to detect a site spectroscopically a valid reason to exclude its participation in a catalytic cycle, since the abundance of any intermediate depends on the kinetic parameters. (49) Additional information that may help to assign active site structures for these materials includes: (1) measuring the fraction of active vs. spectator sites, (2) correlating the changes in the intensities of the characteristic spectroscopic signals (e.g., GaH vibrations or XANES peaks) and catalytic activity, and (3) comparing the computational models for sites and computed barriers and ruling out proposed active sites and mechanisms by their clear disagreement with experimental values. (50)
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The development of structurefunction relationships, which allow us first to understand the origin of and then predict the catalytic activity, is key to the rational design of more effective catalysts. This approach is predicated on the ability to identify the important characteristics of the precise structure(s) present in the active sites under reaction conditions. Moreover, the accuracy of these structures, which are often the starting points for DFT investigations of catalytic mechanisms, often depends on the correct assignment of experimentally observed spectral features.
This study provides qualitative and quantitative guidelines to ensure that Ga K-edge XAS data of catalysts are interpreted correctly to inform and improve mechanistic proposals for these important materials. For Ga(I)-containing compounds, the XANES spectra are characterized by an intense white line pre-edge feature at ca. 10,373 eV, arising from the superposition of transitions to the three empty atomic-like p-states of these weakly bonded metal ions. While trigonal planar Ga(III) compounds with organic or hydride ligands can have similar white line positions, their areas are ca. three times lower due to the stronger bonding associated with orbital hybridization. Based on this insight, we propose three quantitative criteria to establish the presence of Ga(I) in a catalytic material: (1) a low-energy XANES peak at 10,373  0.5 eV; (2) an integrated WL area that is ca. three times that of a trigonal Ga(III) reference; and (3) an unusually weak EXAFS signal. Both XANES peak position and peak area are necessary to positively identify Ga(I). Since the EXAFS signal intensity for Ga(I) ions is very low due to its weak ligand interactions, the EXAFS of Ga-based catalysts may be dominated by minor Ga(III) components, making structural analysis derived from EXAFS and applied to the Ga(I) component highly misleading.
Ga/HZM-5 reduced in H2 meets all qualitative and quantitative criteria for having a majority of Ga(I) sites, while Ga/γ-Al2O3 does not. These findings will have important consequences for interpreting and modeling the reactivity of these intriguing catalysts. Future work should investigate why significantly more Ga(I) forms in some oxide systems (such as Ga/HZSM-5) compared to others (such as Ga/γ-Al2O3). The difference may arise from the nature of the Ga interaction with the oxide matrix. Ga(III) ions may be incorporated into the oxide framework (e.g., substituting for Al(III) in γ-Al2O3) or remain extra-framework (e.g., in zeolites). Such a difference in the major Ga species may result in a difference in the propane dehydrogenation mechanism, although minor sites can be responsible for the observed catalytic activity. It is important to investigate next whether activity differences arise due to differences in catalyst structure (i.e., structurefunction relationships) or to differences in the fraction of active sites.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 