I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Atomically Dispersed Co and Cu on N-Doped Carbon for Reactions Involving CH Activation
Abstract
Atomically dispersed Co(II) cations coordinated to nitrogen in a carbon matrix (Co-N-C) catalyze oxidative dehydrogenation of benzyl alcohol in water with a specific activity approaching that of supported Pt nanoparticles. Whereas Cu(II) cations in N-doped carbon also catalyze the reaction, they are about an order of magnitude less active compared with Co(II) cations. Results from X-ray absorption spectroscopy suggest that oxygen is also bound to N-coordinated Co(II) sites but that it can be partially removed by H2 treatments at 523750 K. The N-coordinated Co(II) sites remained cationic in H2 up to 750 K, and these stable sites were demonstrated to be active for propane dehydrogenation. In situ characterization of Cu(II) in N-doped carbon revealed that reduction of the metal in H2 started at about 473 K, indicating a much lower thermal stability of Cu(II) in H2 relative to Co(II). The demonstrated high catalytic activity and thermal stability of Co-N-C in reducing environments suggests that this material may have broad utility in a variety of catalytic transformations.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:heterogeneous catalyst CH activation alcohol oxidation propane dehydrogenation nonprecious metal N-doped carbon in situ
Show More
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The catalytic transformation of carbon feedstocks to liquid fuels and useful chemicals usually involves the activation of CH bonds, whether the feedstock source is petroleum, natural gas, or biomass. (13) Precious-metal catalysts have been recognized for many years as possessing the features needed to activate CH bonds. (4,5) However, high costs limit their application in large-scale and distributed systems. (6) Therefore, a strong motivation exists to discover or engineer earth-abundant elements in chemical environments that catalyze desired chemical transformations similar to those typical of precious metals. Recently, nonprecious metals confined in a nitrogen-containing carbon matrix (M-N-C) were developed for the electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and the water splitting reaction, in which comparable activity and stability to the well-known Pt catalysts were observed. (712) On the basis of its demonstrated redox activity, M-N-C catalysts were further applied in organic reactions involving oxidative CH activation at mild temperatures (usually lower than 400 K), such as dehydrogenation, coupling, esterification, and nitrification. (1324)
The M-N-C catalysts are commonly prepared by a high-temperature pyrolysis method, which usually produces a variety of metal species simultaneously, such as exposed or encapsulated metal nanoparticles along with atomically dispersed metals in a variety of coordination environments. The coexistence of these different species complicates investigations into the nature of the catalytically active sites. Catalysts predominantly containing atomically dispersed Fe and Co, which also exhibited catalytic activity in ORR or CH activation, were utilized to study the coordination environment and chemical state around the metal. (17,19,22,2544) Atomic dispersion of the metals on these catalysts has been verified by aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-STEM) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). The chemical state and coordination environment were also probed by XAS, along with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Mssbauer spectroscopy, electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS), and density functional theory (DFT). (17,19,3032,34,38,39,41,43,45) Although the existence of nitrogen-coordinated metal sites (MNx) has been well-documented, the coordination number of N atoms to the active metal center is still unresolved. (19,23,40,41,43) Additionally, in situ XAS and XPS have been used to study Fe-based catalysts for ORR, (32,34,37,39) but in situ characterization of materials for chemical catalysis is lacking.
In a recently published work, (21) atomically dispersed Co and Cu in N-containing carbon exhibited the highest activity for catalytic alcohol oxidation among a series of M-N-C catalysts. In the current work, Co and Cu catalysts were comprehensively characterized and correlated with reaction rates to identify and quantify the active sites. In situ XAS was performed to investigate the evolution of Co and Cu sites under oxidizing and reducing conditions at different temperatures (up to 750 K). In addition to oxidative dehydrogenation of benzyl alcohol at mild temperature (353 K), the dehydrogenation of propane to propene was demonstrated over Co-N-C.
Experimental Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Preparation of Catalysts
Black Pearls 2000 from Cabot Corporation and Davisil 636 silica from Sigma-Aldrich were used as the carbon and silica supports in this study. The aqueous ammonia was purchased from Fisher Scientific. All of the other chemicals were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich Corporation or Alfa Aesar, and gases were obtained from Praxair Inc., distributed by GTS-Welco. The M-N-C catalysts were prepared by a modified pyrolysis method. (13,21) First, an ethanol solution of 1,10-phenanthroline was mixed with an aqueous solution of Co(NO3)2·6H2O or Cu(NO3)2·3H2O with a 1:2 molar ratio of metal to 1,10-phenanthroline. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 353 K and added dropwise to a slurry of carbon black in a 0.1 M NaOH aqueous solution under vigorous stirring at 353 K. After 2 h, the slurry was cooled, filtered, washed thoroughly with distilled, deionized water (DI water), and dried overnight at 343 K. The filtered medium was colorless, indicating efficient adsorption of the metal complex onto the carbon support. The prepared materials were subsequently impregnated with an acetone solution of dicyandiamide and dried at 343 K overnight. The amount of impregnated dicyandiamide relative to the carbon support was 40 wt % for samples with 1 wt % metal loading and 80 wt % for catalysts with a 3 or 5 wt % metal loading. The obtained solid was pyrolyzed at 873, 973, or 1073 K for 2 h with a ramping rate of 10 K min1 under an ultrahigh-purity N2 flow (100 cm3 min1). To investigate the influence of ammonia treatment, (10,44) Co and Cu catalysts pyrolyzed at 973 K with a nominal 1 wt % metal loading were treated at 1223 K in NH3 with a ramping rate of 10 K min1 for 2 h under an NH3 flow (100 cm3 min1). To remove the nanoparticles that were observed on the optimized Co-N-C, the catalyst was treated in 1 M HCl solution overnight at room temperature, filtered, washed thoroughly, and dried at 393 K. The acid-treated catalyst is denoted as Co-N-C-HCl. To prepare metal-free nitrogen-doped carbon (N-C), an acetone solution of dicyandiamide (0.4 g) was impregnated into carbon black (0.5 g), followed by a pyrolysis step at 973 K for 2 h under a flow of N2 (100 cm3 min1). As references, supported Co (5 wt %) and Cu (1.5 wt %) nanoparticles were prepared by incipient-wetness impregnation using an aqueous solution of Co(NO3)2·6H2O or Cu(NO3)2·3H2O as the metal precursor and silica, carbon black, or N-C as the support. After impregnation, the Co precursors on carbon or N-doped carbon were decomposed by thermal treatment in a flow of N2 (100 cm3 min1) at 973 K. The C or N-C-supported Cu nanoparticles were prepared by reduction of the impregnated Cu(NO3)2 under a flow of H2 at 623 K. The nanoparticles on Co/SiO2 were prepared by reduction of the impregnated support under a flow of H2 at 923 K. Nitrogen-doped carbon layers were subsequently added to carbon-supported Co and Cu nanoparticles by a modified pyrolysis method using 4-aminoantipyrine as the N-C precursor. (46,47) Additionally, a well-dispersed nominal 2.5 wt % Co/SiO2 catalyst (denoted as CoOx-SiO2) was synthesized by an ion exchange method as described elsewhere. (48,49) Briefly, 4.875 g of acid-washed silica was dispersed in 98 cm3 of DI water under vigorous stirring and then the mixture was heated to 373 K. A solution containing 0.573 g of Co(NH3)6Cl3, 2.765 cm3 of aqueous ammonia, and 104 cm3 of DI water was added dropwise over 10 min to the SiO2 slurry, followed by stirring at 373 K for 1 h. Afterward, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, washed in DI water, dried, and calcined in air (100 cm3 min1) at 573 K for 2 h after heating with a 1 K min1 ramp rate. As references, commercial carbon-supported 3 wt % Pt nanoparticles (Pt/C) (from Sigma-Aldrich) with a surface Pt fraction of 0.59 (50) were evaluated in the alcohol oxidation reaction, and silica-supported Pt nanoparticles (Pt/SiO2) were prepared by incipient-wetness impregnation (details described elsewhere (51)) with a surface Pt fraction of 0.40 and evaluated in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
Characterization of Catalysts
X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded using a PANalytical XPert Pro MPD (multipurpose diffractometer) instrument with Cu Kα radiation (45 kV, 40 mA) and scanning of 2θ from 10 to 70 with a step size of 0.0025 at a rate of 0.5 min1.
Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) was performed on an FEI Titan 80-300 instrument operating at 300 kV or a JEOL 2010 F instrument operating at 200 kV. High-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) STEM images were acquired using a Nion UltraSTEM 100 instrument operated at 60 kV and equipped with a probe aberration corrector to achieve a spatial resolution of 1.1 Å. A convergence angle of 31 mrad was used, with HAADF detector inner and outer collection angles of 86 and 200 mrad, respectively. The electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) was performed with a dispersion of 0.5 eV using Gatan Enfina spectrometer.
The metal loadings on Cu-N-C and Co-N-C-HCl were determined by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), performed by Galbraith Laboratories (2323 Sycamore Drive, Knoxville, TN 37921).
XPS was performed using a Thermo Scientific ESCALAB 250 spectrometer equipped with a focused monochromatic Al Kα X-ray radiation source (1486.6 eV) and a hemispherical analyzer with a six-element multichannel detector. The incident X-ray beam was 45 off normal to the sample, while the X-ray photoelectron detector was normal to the sample. A large-area magnetic lens with a 500 μm spot size in constant analyzer energy mode was utilized with a pass energy of 20 eV for region scans. Charge compensation was employed during data collection with an internal electron flood gun (2 eV) and a low-energy external Ar ion flood gun. The binding energy of the C 1s peak assigned at 284.5 eV, which is attributed to the support, was used to reference the peak positions. (52)
XAS at the Co K edge and Cu K edge was performed on beamline 8-ID at the National Synchrotron Light Source II at Brookhaven National Laboratory, operating at a ring energy of 3.0 GeV and a beam current of 325 mA. Cu and Co metal foils (Goodfellow Corporation) were used as references at the Cu (8979 eV) and Co (7709 eV) K edges, respectively. Chemical standards, including CoO, Co(NO3)2·6H2O, Co3O4, (NH3)6CoCl3, Co(II) phthalocyanine, CuO, Cu(NO3)2·3H2O, and Cu(II) phthalocyanine powders, were crushed and pelletized with boron nitride to provide an absorption edge jump of near unity. Spectra were collected by suspending the pellets in the beam path inside a temperature-controlled transmission chamber with Kapton windows. A gas mixture of 5% H2 in N2 or 10% O2 in N2 was flowed through the transmission chamber at 100 cm3 min1 to provide the reducing and oxidizing conditions, respectively. The XAS data were processed using the Demeter software package created by Bruce Ravel. (53) The CoN, CoO, CuN/O, and CuCu amplitude reduction factors were obtained from fits to Co phthalocyanine, Co3O4, Cu phthalocyanine, and Cu foil standards, respectively.
Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Benzyl Alcohol
The high-pressure, semibatch alcohol oxidation reactions were performed in a 50 cm3 Parr Instrument Company 4592 batch reactor with a 30 cm3 glass liner. An aqueous benzyl alcohol solution (10 cm3) and catalyst were added to the glass liner. The glass liner was inserted into the reactor, sealed, purged with Ar, and heated to 353 K, and the reaction was initiated by pressurizing the reactor with O2. The conversion of alcohol during the initial heating stage was negligible. Liquid samples were periodically taken, and the catalyst was removed using a 0.2 μm PTFE filter before product analysis with a Waters e2695 high-performance liquid chromatograph (HPLC) equipped with a refractive index detector. Product separation in the HPLC was accomplished on an Aminex HPX-87H column (Bio-Rad) operating at 318 K with an aqueous 5 mM H2SO4 solution as the mobile phase flowing at 5 cm3 min1. The retention times and calibration curves were determined by injecting known concentrations of standards. The carbon balance was greater than 90% unless otherwise stated.
The amount of catalyst added to the reactor was chosen so that the alcohol oxidation rate would not be limited by O2 mass transfer from the gas to the liquid. (50) The selectivity for a specific product is defined as the molar amount of that product formed divided by the molar amount of all products produced. The initial reaction rates were calculated from the initial conversions of the alcohol (<20%) after 15 min of reaction.
For poisoning experiments, 10 mg of catalyst (Co-N-C or Cu-N-C) and 10 cm3 of aqueous solution of benzoic acid or KSCN were added to the glass liner. The glass liner was inserted into the reactor, sealed, purged with Ar, and heated to 353 K for 20 min. Subsequently, the catalyst was recovered by filtration, washed thoroughly, and dried at room temperature overnight. The filtered medium was analyzed by HPLC to calculate the amount of adsorbed benzoic acid. The recovered catalyst was then evaluated in the benzyl alcohol oxidation reaction as described above.
Propane Dehydrogenation
Dehydrogenation experiments were conducted in a continuous downward flow reactor consisting of a 0.64 cm o.d. × 0.089 cm wall thickness stainless steel tube with a length of 15 cm. A 10 cm preheating section of the same material was above the reactor. The catalyst bed was supported by glass wool. Catalysts were diluted with silica such that the total catalyst and diluent mass was 300 mg. The Co-N-C-HCl catalyst was treated in 5 M NH4OH aqueous solution overnight, washed, and dried at room temperature before the reaction. This treatment was performed since HCl treatment was shown to inhibit alcohol oxidation activity that can be recovered by mild base (Table S1). Other catalysts were used after the synthesis. The carbon-supported catalysts were pretreated in situ in N2 (100 cm3 min1) at 923 K for 3 h, and the silica-supported catalysts were pretreated in N2 at 773 K for 3 h. Propane and N2 were then fed to the reactor with flow rates of 10 and 30 cm3 min1, respectively. The reactor effluent was fed to an online Agilent 7890A gas chromatograph equipped with an Agilent HP-PLOT/Q column and a flame ionization detector. Samples were taken every 15 min, starting with the sample after 5 min on stream.
Statistical Information
Benzyl alcohol oxidation over the Co-N-C catalyst was repeated seven times to estimate a relative standard deviation of 8% (Table S2). Three batches of Co-N-C and Cu-N-C catalysts were synthesized using the same preparation method and exhibited similar alcohol oxidation rates, with relative standard deviations of 5% for Co-N-C and 6% for Cu-N-C. The standard deviation of ICP-AES analysis is less than 10% (provided by Galbraith Laboratories). For quantitative XPS analysis, three spots on each sample were characterized to calculate the average and standard deviation (Table S3).
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Optimization of Co-N-C and Cu-N-C for Benzyl Alcohol Oxidation
The Co-N-C and Cu-N-C catalysts were prepared by a pyrolysis method involving the thermal decomposition of carbon-supported 1,10-phenanthrolinemetal complexes (MPhen/C) in the presence of dicyandiamide over the temperature range from 873 to 1073 K. The influence of high-temperature ammonia post-treatment was also examined. All of the samples were evaluated in the aqueous-phase oxidative dehydrogenation of benzyl alcohol to determine the optimal synthesis method. Under mild reaction conditions (353 K, 1 MPa O2), benzyl alcohol oxidation rates of 1.6 × 106 and 7.8 × 106 mol s1 gcat1 were observed over the optimized Cu-N-C and Co-N-C catalysts, respectively (Table S4). Details of optimization are described in the Supporting Information. The kinetic isotope effect (KIE), evaluated by using C6H5CD2OH, ranged from 1.6 to 2.9 depending on the metal in the catalyst and the presence of base in the reaction (see Table 1). Although base accelerated the catalytic rate, the oxidation of benzyl alcohol did not require high pH. The normal KIE observed here indicates that CH activation of the alcohol is a kinetically relevant elementary step.
Table 1. Kinetic Isotope Effects for Benzyl Alcohol Oxidationa
catalyst reaction rateD (106 mol s1 gcat1) rateH/rateD
Co-N-C C6H5CD2OH + H2O 2.3 2.9
C6H5CD2OH + H2O + 0.1 M NaOH 10 1.6
Cu-N-C C6H5CD2OH + H2O 0.57 2.8
C6H5CD2OH + H2O + 0.1 M NaOH 3.9 1.8
aReaction conditions: 10 cm3 of 0.05 M benzyl alcohol aqueous solution, 10 mg of catalyst, 1 MPa O2, 353 K. The conversion was less than 20% when the rate was calculated.
Quantification of Active Sites for Low-Temperature CH Activation
The quantification of active sites in M-N-C remains a challenge since some of the metal atoms may be buried in the carbon matrix and therefore be unavailable for catalysis or the local environment around some of the metal atoms may not be optimal for catalysis. A titration method to selectively poison active sites would be quite useful to estimate the actual number of metal sites participating in the reaction. Potassium thiocyanate (KSCN) has been reported to poison exposed metal cations, (19,23) but we found it to be an unsuitable poison under the reaction conditions in this study. As shown in Table S5, addition of KSCN to the reaction solution at a level of more than 5 times that of metal caused a decrease in rate by less than 30% over the Co and Cu catalysts. In contrast, addition of benzoic acid decreased the reaction rate by 90%, and therefore, benzoic acid was utilized to estimate the active-site density in the Co-N-C and Cu-N-C catalysts.
A very small amount of acid can poison a substantial fraction of the observed activity, especially for Co-N-C (Figure 1a). The oxidation rate decreased by 65% with adsorption of 0.24 × 106 mol of benzoic acid, which corresponds to 0.03 equiv relative to total Co. Over Cu-N-C, adsorption of 0.34 × 106 mol of acid (0.18 equiv relative to Cu; Figure 1b) resulted in a 40% decrease in oxidation activity. Adsorption of higher acid amounts did not proportionally decrease the rate, indicating the presence of active sites that are not readily poisoned by benzoic acid. A similar nonlinear dependence of the reaction rate on the amount of poisoning species has also been reported recently. (19) Since it is possible that acid molecules could also adsorb on the carbon support, the ratio of adsorbed acid to catalytically active sites has an assumed upper bound of 1:1. The effect of acid poisoning on the highly active sites can be correlated with the following equation:
(1)
where radd is the measured oxidation rate and r0 is the oxidation rate without any acid poison. The initial linear regions (first four points) in Figure 1a and Figure 1b were fitted with eq 1 to estimate upper bounds of the highly active metal sites that were poisoned. As shown in Table S6, the upper bounds of the highly active sites in 10 mg of sample were 0.32  0.07 μmol in Co-N-C and 0.70  0.09 μmol in Cu-N-C, which correspond to 0.19  0.04 wt % Co and 0.45  0.06 wt % Cu. Accordingly, the lower bounds of the benzyl alcohol oxidation turnover frequency (TOF) over the highly active Co and Cu sites were 0.24 and 0.023 s1, respectively. Carbon-supported Pt nanoparticles have a turnover frequency of 0.33 s1 under identical conditions, indicating that the highly active sites of Co-N-C exhibit nearly the same rate as Pt nanoparticles.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Influence of adsorbed acids on metal sites on the rate of benzyl alcohol oxidation over (a) Co-N-C and (b) Cu-N-C catalysts. Reaction conditions: 10 cm3 of 0.1 M benzyl alcohol aqueous solution, 10 mg of catalyst, 353 K, 1 MPa O2. The reaction rates were calculated from the conversion after 15 min of reaction. The results from linear fits of the first four points (dashed lines) are presented in Table S6.
Identification of Active Sites for Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Benzyl Alcohol
The optimized Co-N-C and Cu-N-C catalysts were characterized and compared to the reference materials in an attempt to elucidate the active sites. A negligible number of metal nanoparticles was detected on the optimized Cu-N-C, as confirmed by extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) (Figure 2d), XRD (Figure S1), and STEM (Figure S2a), suggesting that the Cu was predominantly in the form of atomically dispersed sites, which was confirmed by AC-STEM (Figure 3b). The elemental analysis by ICP-AES showed a Cu loading of 1.2 wt % (Table 2). The Co-N-C catalyst, on the other hand, had nanoparticles with a diameter of 2 nm, as revealed by STEM (Figure S2b). The Co nanoparticles were successfully removed by a mild acid wash with 1 M HCl (Figure S2c). (23) The atomically dispersed Co that remained on the sample (denoted as Co-N-C-HCl), which was observed by AC-STEM (Figure 3a), had a loading of 1.5 wt % from ICP-AES (Table 2), compared with a nominal loading of 5 wt % Co before the acid wash. Since the rates of benzyl alcohol oxidation under basic conditions were the same over Co-N-C and Co-N-C-HCl (Table S1), catalytic activity is not associated with the nanoparticles. Moreover, compared with the alcohol oxidation rates over supported or encapsulated nanoparticles (Figure S3) as well as N-C without any metal (Table 3), the much higher rates of the atomically dispersed metal sites confirm their participation in the catalysis for oxidative dehydrogenation of benzyl alcohol. Additionally, Table 3 shows the negligible activity of highly dispersed CoOx on silica (Figure S4) or carbon-supported 1,10-phenanthrolinemetal complexes, indicating the importance of the unique chemical environment around the metal atoms of M-N-C catalysts.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Normalized XANES at the Co K edge and (b) the k2-weighted Fourier transform (not corrected for phase shift) of Co EXAFS associated with Co-N-C-HCl at room temperature, at 373 K under 10% O2, and at 373 K under 5% H2. (c) Normalized XANES at the Cu K edge and (d) the k2-weighted Fourier transform (not corrected for phase shift) of Cu EXAFS associated with Cu-N-C at room temperature, at 373 K under 10% O2, and at 373 K under 5% H2.
Figure 3
Figure 3. AC-STEM images of (a) Co-N-C-HCl and (b) Cu-N-C.
Table 2. Loadings of Metal Sites Associated with Atomically Dispersed Co and Cu Catalysts
  overall metal loading (wt %)
catalyst ICP-AESa XPSb
Co-N-C-HCl 1.5 1.3  0.2
Cu-N-C 1.2 0.5  0.1
aThe relative standard deviation of the ICP-AES measurements was less than 10% (provided by Galbraith Laboratories).
bThe metal loadings were derived from the quantitative XPS analysis shown in Table S3.
Table 3. Rates of Benzyl Alcohol Oxidation over Reference Materialsa
entry catalyst metal loading (wt %)b rate (106 mol s1 gcat1)
1 CoPhen/C 1 0.013
2 CuPhen/C 1 0.010
3 N-C  0.041
4 Cu/C 1.5 0.035
5 Cu/N-C 1 0.022
6 N-C-Cu/C 1.5 0.024
7 Co/C 5 0.040
8 Co/N-C 5 0.085
9 N-C-Co/C 5 0.062
10 Co/SiO2 5 0.0026
11 CoOx-SiO2 2.5 0.0025
12 Pt/C 3 30
aReaction conditions: 10 cm3 of 0.05 M benzyl alcohol aqueous solution, 1 MPa O2, 353 K. Rates were calculated on the basis of the alcohol conversion after 15 min of reaction.
bThe nominal metal loadings were calculated on the basis of the amounts of precursors for catalyst preparation.
The Co-N-C-HCl and Cu-N-C catalysts were further characterized to determine their coordination environments. The distribution of Co and N in Co-N-C-HCl was studied by EELS coupled with AC-STEM. In a 3 nm × 3 nm area (Figure S5a), N K-edge EELS mapping (shown in Figure S5d) showed the nitrogen to be well-distributed and therefore likely coordinated to Co atoms, represented by the bright regions in Figure S5c, to form the catalytically active CoNx sites. (41) The coordinating N atoms for the metal sites have been reported to be pyridinic in nature with a 1s binding energy of 398.5 eV. (19,38,49) We observed both graphitic (400.7 eV) and pyridinic (398.8 eV) nitrogen by XPS on Co-N-C-HCl, as shown in Figure 4c. The Co 2p3/2 X-ray photoelectron spectrum of Co-N-C-HCl exhibited a major peak at 780.7 eV together with a satellite peak at 786.4 eV having one-third the intensity of the main peak, consistent with the presence of Co(II). (38,54) Excess pyridinic N exists relative to Co(II) to form the CoNx sites, with an 11:1 molar ratio of pyridinic N to Co (Table S3). Notably, the 1.3  0.2 wt % Co loading in Co-N-C-HCl measured from surface-sensitive XPS is quite close to the bulk Co loading determined by ICP-AES, consistent with a homogeneous distribution of Co throughout the catalyst. Similar to Co-N-C-HCl, peaks in the spectrum associated with pyridinic N at 398.7 eV, graphitic N at 400.5 eV, and Cu(II) at 933.5 eV were observed over Cu-N-C (Figure 4b,d), with excess pyridinic N present in twice the amount of Cu(II) (Table S3). In the Cu-N-C catalyst, 0.5  0.1 wt % Cu was measured by XPS, compared with 1.2 wt % Cu by ICP-AES (Table 2), indicating that a higher relative fraction of CuNx moieties were located in the support rather than being present on the surface.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Co 2p3/2 X-ray photoelectron spectrum of Co-N-C-HCl. (b) Cu 2p3/2 X-ray photoelectron spectrum of Cu-N-C. (c, d) N 1s X-ray photoelectron spectra of (c) Co-N-C-HCl and (d) Cu-N-C.
X-ray absorption spectroscopy at the K edges of Co and Cu was also used to investigate the MNx sites. A characteristic near-edge feature associated with square-planar MN4 is present at 7715 eV for CoN4 and 8986 eV for CuN4, which originates from the 1s  4pz transition with simultaneous ligand-to-metal charge transfer. (38,55) This feature is present in the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) of Co(II) phthalocyanine and Cu(II) phthalocyanine standards (Figure S6a,c). The Co-N-C-HCl and Cu-N-C catalysts, however, did not exhibit this pre-edge feature (Figures 2a,c and 5a,c), suggesting a nonplanar structure of CoNx and CuNx sites in the catalytic samples. Attempts were also made to analyze the oxidation states of the metals by comparing the Co and Cu K-edge XANES to spectra of standard materials, but the correlation of oxidation state to the white line intensity or edge position was not obvious because of changes in line shape among the standards. EXAFS was further used to analyze the coordination environments around the Co and Cu atoms. As shown in Figures 2b and 5b, a predominant peak in the radial structure function associated with CoN and a less intense feature attributed to CoO were observed on the Co catalyst. There was no significant CoCo contribution, which is consistent with the atomic dispersion of Co. The coordination numbers (CN), interatomic distances (r), and DebyeWaller factors (σ2) obtained from EXAFS curve fitting of as-prepared Co-N-C-HCl are presented in Table 4. A CoN shell at a distance of 1.91 Å with a coordination number of 2.4 and a CoO shell at 2.09 Å with a coordination number of 2.1 fit the data well (Figure 6). Similar CoN and CoO distances have been reported previously for a Co-N-C material exposed to air, with coordination numbers of 3.7 for CoN and 1.7 for CoO. (38) The Cu-N-C sample had a minor feature in the EXAFS that might be attributed to CuCu, but a strong feature of either CuN or CuO was observed (Figure 2d). Similar interatomic distances of CuN and CuO in EXAFS were observed on the standard samples shown in Figure S6d. The fitting results suggest a CuN/O bond length of 1.93 Å with a total coordination number of 3.6 in Cu-N-C (Table S7 and Figure S7). Since XPS showed that the ratio of pyridinic N to Cu was only 2:1 (Table S3), the Cu atoms of Cu-N-C are likely bonded to both N and O.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Normalized XANES at the Co K edge and (b) the k2-weighted Fourier transform (not corrected for phase shift) of Co EXAFS associated with Co-N-C-HCl under 5% H2 flow from 373 to 750 K. (c) Normalized XANES at the Cu K edge and (d) the k2-weighted Fourier transform (not corrected for phase shift) of the Cu EXAFS associated with Cu-N-C under a 5% H2 flow from 373 to 573 K.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) k2-weighted experimental and fitted Fourier transforms of Co EXAFS associated with Co-N-C-HCl as-prepared and after H2 treatment at 750 K followed by cooling in H2 to 313 K. (b) Contributions of different paths (including CoN and CoO) in k space for Co-N-C-HCl as-prepared and after H2 treatment at 750 K followed by cooling in H2 to 313 K. The fitting parameters are presented in Table 4.
Table 4. Results of the Analyses of Co EXAFS from the Co-N-C-HCl Catalyst before and after H2 Treatmenta
conditions shell CN r (Å) Δσ2 (Å2) ΔE0 (eV)
as-prepared CoN 2.4  0.9 1.91  0.03 0.005  0.003 0.3  0.6
CoO 2.1  0.9 2.09  0.03 0.005  0.005 0.3  0.6
after H2 treatmentb CoN 2.4  0.9 1.89  0.03 0.004  0.003 0.3  0.6
CoO 1.2  0.9 2.06  0.05 0.004  0.005 0.3  0.6
aFitting parameters: Fourier transform range, Δk, 214 Å1; fitting range ΔR, 12.2 Å; k2 weighting, S02(CoN/O) = 0.775 (calibrated from Co phthalocyanine). The fitted Fourier transforms are presented in Figure 6.
bThe Co-N-C-HCl catalyst was treated in H2 from room temperature to 750 K and then cooled to 313 K.
The Co-N-C-HCl and Cu-N-C catalysts were further characterized by in situ XAS to explore the potential change of oxygen-bonded MNx sites under oxidizing and reducing conditions at 373 K. Catalysts were first treated with 10% O2 in a flow of N2 at 373 K for 30 min, followed by purging with N2 and treatment with 5% H2 in N2 at 373 K. As shown in Figure 2, the XANES and EXAFS of the Co and Cu catalysts under the oxidizing and reducing environments are almost identical, indicating negligible changes in atomic structure and chemical state around Co and Cu. Therefore, the N-coordinated Co and Cu sites bonded to oxygen likely remain and act as active sites during alcohol oxidation at 353 K, which is close to the temperature of in situ XAS (373 K). The proposed structure of active sites is consistent with the very weak poisoning effect of KSCN on alcohol oxidation (Table S5), which supports the conclusion that the active sites are not exposed metal atoms.
Both metals and their adjacent N and/or O of active sites are likely involved in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alcohols. It has been well-recognized that the kinetically relevant CH cleavage of metal-coordinated alcohols can be catalyzed by redox-noninnocent ligands, such as N or O adjacent to metal centers, in enzymes or metal complexes. (56,57) Radicals are usually involved in this process and were observed by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy during oxidative CH activation over M-N-C catalysts. (17,19) The N sites have also been reported to be critical for dioxygen activation as probed by in situ XPS, (39) which is important to complete the redox cycle. Mamtani et al. (58) used H3PO4 to selectively poison the N-doped carbon electrocatalyst for ORR and count the active sites available for reaction. Our results reported here show that benzoic acid can also significantly decrease the alcohol oxidation rate over M-N-C catalysts, which is likely caused by the poisoning of N sites that are necessary for the oxidative dehydrogenation (Table S5).
Evolution of M-N-C under Reducing Conditions at Elevated Temperatures
To investigate the potential evolution of oxygen-bonded CoNx sites at elevated temperatures under reducing conditions, Co-N-C-HCl was ramped to 750 K in 5% H2 balanced with N2. Figure 5a presents the XANES at the Co K edge during the thermal treatment. Only very subtle variations in the edge position and line shape were observed, indicating that the atomic structure and chemical state around the Co did not vary significantly with treatment and that the Co remained as charged cations even at 750 K in 5% H2. From the EXAFS analysis shown in Figure 5b, the CoN feature in the radial structure function was relatively unaffected by the thermal ramp in H2. No evidence for the growth of nanoparticles was observed, which suggests that the Co atoms remained isolated throughout the thermal treatment. In contrast, the CoO contribution in the radial structure function significantly decreased in intensity with increasing temperature (Figure 5b). The Co EXAFS fitting results show that the coordination number of CoO decreased from 2.1 in as-prepared Co-N-C-HCl to 1.2 in the catalyst after the H2 treatment (Table 4), which indicates the continuous removal of coordinated oxygen from CoNx.
In contrast to Co-N-C-HCl, the influence of H2 on the chemical state of Cu in Cu-N-C was clearly evident. The XANES of Cu-N-C in 5% H2 at different temperatures is shown in Figure 5c. A significant decrease in the white line intensity was observed with increasing temperature, indicating reduction of Cu cations in the N-doped carbon matrix. Additionally, the thermal treatment in H2 induced the emergence of a pre-edge feature at 8983 eV, which is the characteristic feature of Cu metal (Figure S6c). Simultaneously, the intensity of the CuN/O feature in the radial structure function decreased, which is consistent with the reduction of isolated Cu cations into metallic Cu metal clusters during the H2 treatment. The very different thermal stabilities of the Co and Cu sites might explain the H2 regeneration experiments reported in our previous work, (21) during which H2 treatment at 573 K could effectively regenerate the activity of a poisoned Co-N-C catalyst but regenerated only 30% of the original activity of Cu-N-C. The aggregation of isolated Cu sites to inactive Cu clusters for alcohol oxidation could account for the problem with Cu-N-C regeneration.
Propane Dehydrogenation over CoNx Sites
The very high stability of cationic Co coordinated to nitrogen offers an opportunity to explore Co-N-C as a catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, which is well-recognized to occur over Sn-promoted Pt particles (and other variants of promoted Pt) at elevated temperatures. (59) Propane can also be converted by Co(II) cations loaded into H-ZSM-5 zeolites, but the product distribution is complex because the acid sites of the zeolite can catalyze cracking and oligomerization reactions. (60,61) In 2015, Hu et al. (62) reported that Co(II) ions on silica gel catalyzed the dehydrogenation of propane to propene at temperatures of 823 K and greater with high selectivity. In this study, both atomically dispersed Co-N-C-HCl and ion-exchanged, SiO2-supported CoOx catalysts were evaluated in a flow reactor. As shown in Figure 7, an initial TOF normalized by the total number of Co sites (giving a lower bound of the TOF) was measured to be 0.028 s1 over Co-N-C-HCl after 5 min on stream. Some deactivation was observed, and the observed TOF decreased to 0.015 s1 after 3.1 h on stream (Figure 7b), which is an order of magnitude lower than the TOF associated with supported Pt nanoparticles (0.14 s1) under the same conditions (the conversion of propane over Pt/SiO2 is shown in Figure S10). Highly dispersed CoOx on silica has a measured TOF of 0.005 s1 under the same reaction conditions. The selectivity to propene is higher than 98% over both Co-N-C-HCl and CoOx-SiO2. In comparison, the metallic Co nanoparticles supported on carbon or SiO2 exhibited significantly lower activity, and conversion of propane was not measured after 5 min on stream (Figure S10). Our results indicate that the propane dehydrogenation reaction can be efficiently catalyzed by cationic Co atoms and high activity can be obtained by replacing coordinating oxygen with coordinating nitrogen. Since the calculated TOF over Co-N-C-HCl is a lower bound, it is possible that the active Co sites could be similar in rate to Pt, as illustrated earlier for benzyl alcohol oxidation.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Conversion of propane and (b) nominal TOF during propane dehydrogenation over 0.05 g of Co-N-C-HCl and 0.1 g of CoOx-SiO2. TOFs were based on the total Co loading in the sample. Reaction conditions: 773 K, 0.1 MPa, N2:propane = 3:1.
Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This work demonstrates that atomically dispersed Co cations confined in nitrogen-doped carbon catalyze CH activation during oxidative alcohol dehydrogenation at 353 K and alkane dehydrogenation at 773 K. The selective poisoning of highly active Co sites for benzyl alcohol oxidative dehydrogenation allowed for the estimation of a turnover frequency, which was determined to be nearly the same as that over Pt nanoparticles under identical conditions. Nitrogen-coordinated Co(II) cations bound to oxygen are proposed to be active sites for CH activation at mild temperature on the basis of comprehensive characterization of the sample by several methods. Whereas oxygen bound to the Co(II) can be removed by dihydrogen treatment at elevated temperatures (>573 K), the Co(II) cations remain atomically dispersed and coordinated to nitrogen in the carbon at up to 750 K. The stable Co(II) cations in N-doped carbon catalyze the dehydrogenation of propane to propene at 773 K. Cu(II) cations confined in nitrogen-doped carbon also catalyze aerobic alcohol oxidation at 353 K, but the turnover frequency of the highly active CuNx sites is an order of magnitude lower than that associated with CoNx. Although Cu(II) cations remained in the N-doped carbon matrix at 373 K under reducing conditions, partial reduction of the Cu was observed above 473 K. These findings provide new insights into the structural and chemical properties that may allow Co-N-C and Cu-N-C catalysts to become desirable replacements for a variety of precious-metal catalysts.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 