<DOCUMENT>
A novel reverse flow reactor coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions. Part I: comparison of reactor configurations for irreversible endothermic reactions
Abstract
A new reactor concept is studied for highly endothermic heterogeneously catalysed gas phase reactions at high temperatures with rapid but reversible catalyst deactivation. The reactor concept aims to achieve an indirect coupling of energy necessary for endothermic reactions and energy released by exothermic reactions, without mixing of the endothermic and exothermic reactants, in closed-loop reverse flow operation. Periodic gas flow reversal incorporates regenerative heat exchange inside the reactor. The reactor concept is studied for the coupling between the non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion over a monolithic catalyst.
Two different reactor configurations are considered: the sequential reactor configuration, where the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed sequentially to the same catalyst bed acting as an energy repository and the simultaneous reactor configuration, where the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed continuously to two different compartments directly exchanging energy. The dynamic reactor behaviour is studied by detailed simulation for both reactor configurations. Energy constraints, relating the endothermic and exothermic operating conditions, to achieve a cyclic steady state are discussed. Furthermore, it is indicated how the operating conditions should be matched in order to control the maximum temperature. Also, it is shown that for a single first order exothermic reaction the maximum dimensionless temperature in reverse flow reactors depends on a single dimensionless number. Finally, both reactor configurations are compared based on their operating conditions. It is shown that only in the sequential reactor configuration the endothermic inlet concentration can be optimised independently of the gas velocities at high throughput and maximum reaction coupling energy efficiency, by the choice of a proper switching scheme with inherently zero differential creep velocity and using the ratio of the cycle times.
In this first part, both the propane dehydrogenation and the methane combustion have been considered as first order irreversible reactions. However, the propane dehydrogenation is an equilibrium reaction and the low exit temperatures resulting from the reverse flow concept entail considerable propane conversion losses. How this ‘back-conversion’ can be counteracted is discussed in part II Chemical Engineering Science, 57, (2002), 855–872.
1. Introduction
Highly endothermic heterogeneously catalysed gas phase reactions at high temperatures with possible rapid but reversible catalyst deactivation are an industrially important class of chemical transformations. Examples of large industrial processes for this type of reactions are the dehydrogenation of lower paraffin's, the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene and the production of synthesis gas. Processes for highly endothermic reactions with catalyst deactivation differ mainly in the method of energy supply for the endothermic reactions and the method of catalyst regeneration, predominantly determined by the catalyst properties and the rate of catalyst deactivation.
Mixing of the endothermic reactants with exothermic reactants or other components, designated as ‘direct coupling’ by Kulkarni (1996), can eliminate the need for heat exchange and it can strongly reduce or completely avoid catalyst deactivation. In this work, it is assumed that the resulting strong dilution of the endothermic products and possible decrease in product selectivities due to side-reactions between the endothermic and exothermic reactants and products are undesired. Consequently, heat supply by feeding preheated gas is insufficient to maintain the reactor temperature at the desired level to obtain the specified conversion and, furthermore, separate catalyst regeneration is required.
Processes based on ‘indirect coupling’ that are currently being applied in industry for highly endothermic reactions with catalyst deactivation are based on either interconnected fluidised bed or moving bed technologies with an external catalyst regeneration unit, or packed bed technology with a periodic in situ catalyst regeneration. In the interconnected fluidised bed reactor, the necessary energy for the endothermic conversions is supplied via recirculation of the externally regenerated and reheated catalyst. In a packed bed reactor supply of the required reaction energy can be accomplished via internal or external heat exchange. For highly endothermic reactions at high temperatures, generally, a series of adiabatic packed bed reactors with intermediate heaters is applied. Due to the relatively small driving force for heat transfer at high temperatures very large heat exchanging areas would be required to achieve the desired heat exchange in a non-adiabatic fixed bed reactor.
The necessary energy for the endothermic reactions can also be delivered in situ to the fixed catalyst bed during the regeneration phase, either using a heat-exchanging medium like air or steam heated in a separate furnace, thus still requiring external heat exchange equipment, or by carrying out exothermic reactions directly in the fixed catalyst bed. A well-known traditional process applied for indirect coupling of endothermic and exothermic reactions in the same catalyst bed is the Houdry process, where the strongly endothermic catalytic paraffin dehydrogenation is periodically alternated with a heating cycle feeding preheated air to regenerate the catalyst by burning off the formed coke. Another example is the RE-GAS process for synthesis gas production, indirectly coupling the endothermic steam reforming and exothermic hydrocarbon combustion reactions, as studied with model simulations by Kulkarni (1996), Kulkarni and Dudukovic (1996) and Kulkarni and Dudukovic (1997).
To minimise energy requirements the reactants are usually heated by cooling the products. In conventional processes this is achieved in an external heat exchanger. For fixed catalyst beds, recuperative heat exchange can also be accomplished with a forced dynamic operation by periodic reversal of the gas flow direction through the catalyst bed, making use of the large thermal capacity of the catalyst bed compared to the gas phase, as firstly proposed by Cottrell (1996). However, only since the seventies the application of forced unsteady-state operation by periodic gas flow reversals has been studied for exothermic reactions in large industrial processes, initiated by the pioneering work of especially Russian researchers (e.g. Boreskov, Matros, & Kiselev, 1979; Boreskov, Bunimovic, Matros, & Ivanov, 1982; Boreskov & Matros, 1983). For exothermic reactions the reverse flow reactor allows an autothermal operation with high temperatures in the centre of the reactor while maintaining low temperatures at the reactor inlet and outlet. Integration of recuperative heat exchange in the reactor by periodic flow reversals, referred to as ‘closed-loop’ reverse flow operation by Matros and Bunimovich (1997), has been studied extensively for many different exothermic reactions. However, most processes for endothermic reactions—although operated in reverse flow—do not recover the energy of the product gas for preheating the inlet gas inside the catalyst bed, but in an external heat exchanger (‘open-loop’ reverse flow operation), e.g. the previously mentioned Houdry and RE-GAS processes.
A qualitative comparison of the benefits and drawbacks of a closed-loop reverse flow reactor compared to the conventional packed bed and interconnected fluidised bed technologies for endothermic reactions is summarised in Table 1. A closed-loop reverse flow reactor coupling highly endothermic reactions with exothermic reactions at high temperatures may achieve large savings on investments for a separate regenerator and external high temperature heat exchange equipment and operating costs for solids transport. Especially, if the high switching frequency between the endothermic and exothermic reactions can be exploited for operation at more severe process conditions, or, if by unsteady operation the optimal process conditions can be better approached—because of the dynamic properties of the reactor as a whole or by the dynamic response of the catalyst characteristics to changes in process conditions (e.g. Matros, 1996)—a reverse flow reactor for endothermic reactions may have significant benefits.
Table 1. Qualitative comparison of the ‘closed-loop’ reverse flow process with indirect coupling of endothermic and exothermic reactions with the conventional adiabatic packed bed with periodic catalyst regeneration and the interconnected fluidised beds processes∗
Reactor selection criteria
Empty Cell
PBR IFBR RCRFR
Reaction conditions Reaction endothermicity Low Moderate–very high Moderate–high
Temperature Low High High
Attrition resistance Low High Low
Catalyst deactivation rate Low Moderate–very high Moderate
Process control Temperature control − + ±
Solids handling ±a − +
Development costs Process knowledge + + —
Catalyst development + − ±
Investment costs Reactor section
Gas back mixing + − +
Equipment erosion + − +
Auxiliary equipment
Heat exchange — − +b
Gas solid separation −
Control equipment + − −
Operating costs Compression costs
(pressure drop/solids handling) − −c +d
Catalyst losses/equipment erosion + − +
Product losses + + −e
∗
PBR: packed bed reactor; IFBR: interconnected fluidised bed reactor; RCRFR: closed-loop reverse flow reactor coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions.
a
Possible plugging of the catalyst bed.
b
Only a start-up heater.
c
Large gas flows for solids transport.
d
Especially in case of a monolithic catalyst.
e
Because of flow direction and reaction phase switching.
The non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation to propylene and hydrogen over a monolithic platinum-based catalyst is a very interesting reaction system for operation in a reverse flow reactor, coupling the endothermic propane dehydrogenation indirectly with the exothermic combustion with air of coke—formed as a side product during the dehydrogenation—and added hydrocarbon fuels for overall thermal balance. The highly endothermic propane dehydrogenation equilibrium reaction (ca.
at 650°C) is carried out at high temperatures (550–650°C) at atmospheric or slightly sub-atmospheric pressures over a chromia or platinum-type catalyst. Although the equilibrium conversion is strongly increased at higher temperatures (increasing from 50% at 600°C to 80% at 700°C, assuming undiluted feed), conventional processes for the propane dehydrogenation operate at temperatures below ca. 650°C and usually with high hydrogen concentrations in order to reduce coking of the catalyst and to avoid excessive catalyst deactivation. The rate of coke formation strongly increases with increasing temperature, increasing propylene concentrations and decreasing hydrogen concentrations (Van Sint Annaland, Kuipers, & van Swaaij, 2001b). In the adiabatic reverse flow reactor the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases are alternated with relatively high frequencies because of the large heat consumption during the propane dehydrogenation, inherently assuring very fast catalyst regeneration. The very fast catalyst regeneration allows operation at higher temperatures and lower hydrogen concentrations yielding higher propane conversions and propylene selectivities. Moreover, the heat released during the burning of the coke can be effectively recovered for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation, so that coke formation does not decrease the overall energy efficiency. Furthermore, operation with short propane dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles has the distinct advantage of operation at a relatively low coke content at the catalyst surface with the corresponding high catalyst activity and an easy coke removal without deteriorating the catalyst properties (Van Sint Annaland, 2000).
1.1. Reactor configurations
A closed-loop reverse flow reactor for endothermic reactions with indirect coupling with exothermic reactions can be achieved in two different reactor configurations, designated by ‘sequential’ and ‘simultaneous’ reactor configuration (see Fig. 1, Fig. 2).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Schematic representation of operation mode for the sequential reactor configuration.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Schematic representation of different switching schemes for the simultaneous reactor configuration.
In the sequential reactor configuration endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed discontinuously and sequentially to the same catalyst bed. Here, the bed acts as an energy repository delivering energy during the endothermic reaction phase and storing energy during the consecutive exothermic reaction phase. In the simultaneous reactor configuration, the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed continuously to different catalyst beds exchanging energy. The endothermic and exothermic feed streams are periodically switched in order to counteract catalyst deactivation. In Fig. 2 the endothermic and exothermic compartments are schematically depicted as two catalyst beds. A larger heat exchanging area between the endothermic and exothermic compartments can be achieved in a shell-and-tube heat exchanger type reactor construction or a monolith where one part of the channels is fed with endothermic reactants and the remaining channels with exothermic reactants, similar to the reactor set-up described by Frauhammer, Eigenberger, Hippel, and Arntz (1999), but they did not include periodic flow reversals and alternation of the reactants feed streams. The larger heat exchanging area is achieved, however, at the expensive of a much more complex feed supply construction.
Both the sequential and simultaneous reactor configurations can be operated in different modes, as schematically indicated in Fig. 1, Fig. 2. The order in which the different operation modes are alternated is referred to as the switching scheme.
This research aims the development of a ‘closed-loop’ reverse flow reactor for highly endothermic reactions with rapid but reversible catalyst deactivation through the indirect coupling of endothermic and exothermic reactions. The reactor concept will be developed for the non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation over a platinum ceramic monolithic catalyst coupled with the combustion of hydrocarbon fuels as an exemplary reaction system. To avoid obscuring the already very intricate dynamic behaviour of the reverse flow reactor, effects of coke formation are ignored here (see Van Sint Annaland (2000) for calculations including coking effects). Moreover, it should be noted that the platinum-based monolith is a catalyst for both the endothermic dehydrogenation and the exothermic fuel combustion. Perhaps a catalyst could be composed of two different types of active components, where one type of active component is a catalyst for the endothermic reaction and the other for the exothermic reaction without any cross influences of the active components on the other reaction (especially side-reactions). However, catalyst optimisation is not considered here.
Firstly, in part I, it is elucidated how the operating conditions of the exothermic and endothermic reaction phases should be matched in order to achieve a cyclic steady state for both the sequential and simultaneous reactor configuration taking into account all design constraints. This analysis is carried out for the propane dehydrogenation coupled with methane combustion, considering both reactions as simple first order irreversible heterogeneous reactions. This simplification facilitates the analysis of the dynamic reactor behaviour retaining its most important features. Furthermore, it allows a comparison of the reactor configurations at the maximum achievable production capacity and product yields.
However, the propane dehydrogenation is an equilibrium reaction, like most industrially important endothermic reactions. Due to the steep temperature decline at the reactor outlet of reverse flow reactors, the equilibrium is shifted towards the reactants, possibly leading to a significantly lower propane conversion. In part II, the study will be extended for reversible endothermic reactions to study possible solutions to avoid this ‘back-conversion’, making use of the ‘design rules’ developed in part I. Additionally, the model will be made more realistic by accounting for the axial gas-phase momentum balance and more accurate kinetics for both the propane dehydrogenation as well as the combustion reactions, also including homogeneous combustion reactions.
In the subsequent sections of this part the simulation models and the design criteria will be outlined, based on which ‘design rules’ will be formulated for the sequential and simultaneous reactor configurations. Then, based on these ‘design rules’ the sequential and simultaneous reactor configurations will be compared. The comparison of the reactor configurations is restricted to the study of the effect of operating conditions. The more difficult reactor construction of the simultaneous reactor configuration with potentially eminent operational hazards for this reaction system is left out of consideration.
2. Simulation models
2.1. The dynamic model and the high switching frequency model
For a given endothermic and exothermic reaction system in a ceramic monolithic catalyst, the operating conditions are determined by the inlet composition and inlet mass flow rate for the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases. For the sequential reactor configuration, the endothermic and exothermic reaction cycle times and flow reversal cycle times and the switching scheme are additionally required. In order to determine how the operating conditions effect the cyclic steady state in a reverse flow reactor indirectly coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions, numerical models are used to simulate the transient reactor behaviour. Two different types of models are used, differing in complexity in the description of the transient processes in the reverse flow reactor, designated as the dynamic model (DM) and the high switching frequency model (HSFM). The DM constitutes of unsteady-state mass, momentum and energy balances for the gas and catalyst phase, with time-dependent boundary conditions to incorporate flow direction and reaction phase switching. The approximate HSFM is used to facilitate the study of the influence of the operating conditions on the cyclic steady state for the sequential reactor configuration. Due to the large reaction enthalpies of the propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion the reaction phase switching times are expected to be relatively short. The HSFM assumes infinitely fast switching of the gas flow direction, and can be derived from the DM by expanding the time-dependencies in Taylor-series (Haynes, Georgakis, & Caram, 1995) or by recognising the counter-current reactor concept in the limit of infinitely fast switching (Eigenberger & Nieken, 1988). In the HSFM, the movement of the temperature fronts has been excluded from the modelling due to cancellation of net effective heat convection, facilitating the comparison of the cyclic steady states for different operating conditions. Secondly, for short reaction phase and flow direction switching times the different switching schemes approach the same limit, so that also the influence of the switching scheme is excluded in the HSFM. Here, it is assumed that the reactor is long enough to create two different reaction zones at either side of the reactor. In the limit of very short cycle times, the catalyst temperature profile at one side of the reactor is hardly effected when reactants are fed at the other reactor end. Thus, the particular order of the reaction phases and flow direction switching does not influence the cyclic steady state temperature profiles in case of short cycle times. However, in the HSFM it is assumed that both the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed from both sides of the reactor, unlike the asymmetric switching scheme proposed by Kulkarni (1996). The HSFM offers the opportunity to study the effect of operating conditions on the transient reactor behaviour of a sequential reverse flow reactor without considering the switching scheme. The results can then be refined using the DM. It should be noted that although the HSFM is conceptually simpler, it is not so numerically. Finally, simulations have confirmed the expected correspondence of the DM with very small cycle times and the HSFM, irrespective of the switching scheme.
2.2. Model assumptions
The intricate transient behaviour of reverse flow reactors coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions in monolithic catalysts has been studied by solving the transport equations of mass, momentum and energy for both the gas and catalyst phase, using the following general model assumptions:
1. Symmetrical adiabatic monolithic reactor. It is assumed that the inlet gas velocity is equal for all channels in the monolith and that heat losses to the surroundings can be neglected (justified for monoliths with a large diameter), allowing to neglect a radial temperature profile over the channels of the monolith.
2. Impermeable pseudo-homogeneous catalyst phase. The monolithic channels consist of an impermeable ceramic support with a porous washcoat layer in which the active component is uniformly dispersed. Mass transfer between different channels can be left out of consideration and heat transport in the solid catalyst phase is described with effective heat transfer properties.
3. One-dimensional plug flow with superimposed axial dispersion. A one-dimensional plug flow model with superimposed axial dispersion for gas phase mass, momentum and energy transport sufficiently captures the most salient features of monolithic reverse flow reactors, according to the theory for generalised Taylor dispersion for reactive systems (see Van Sint Annaland, Kuipers, & van Swaaij, 2001a, Appendix A).
4. Gas phase in pseudo-steady state. The accumulation of energy in the gas phase can be neglected because of the negligible volumetric heat capacity of the gas phase compared to that of the solid phase. The accumulation of momentum in the gas phase can be ignored due to very small response times for small channels. It is assumed that also gas phase mass accumulation can be neglected, which is only valid if the gas phase residence time is much smaller than the cycle times for flow reversal and gas phase switching. Although the ratio of the gas residence time to the switching time was about 5% in some calculations, neglect of mass accumulation was necessary to avoid the calculation of moving concentration fronts, which require intolerably large computation times. By assuming the gas phase in pseudo-steady state also the phenomena during reaction phase switching are ignored.
For the propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion reaction system the equations of change can be further simplified. Since the conversion rate of the propane dehydrogenation in a monolithic catalyst with its very small washcoat thickness is completely determined by intrinsic kinetics without external or internal mass transfer limitations. Moreover, only combustion with very low fuel concentrations is considered in this work, so that diffusion coupling plays no role in this reaction system and a Fickian description of mass and heat transfer can be used. This allows the substitution of the catalyst phase component mass balance in the gas phase component mass balance. Based on numerical simulations with a more general and detailed dynamic model it has been concluded for the reactor and reaction system and operating conditions under consideration that entrance effects on mass and heat transfer and radiative heat transfer can safely be ignored. Furthermore, the effects of axial dispersion of mass and heat in the gas phase are negligible for the relatively high gas flow velocities considered.
The DM and the HSFM model equations are summarised in Table 2, Table 3. A uniform initial axial catalyst temperature profile and the usual Danckwerts-type boundary conditions have been implemented, where both the inlet and outlet boundary conditions are periodically switched and the physical properties and reactions are periodically alternated upon reaction phase switching. The gas phase physical properties have been modelled following Reid, Prausnitz, and Poling (1988) using pure component properties as described by Dauber and Danner (1985). The solid phase is a monolith with rectangular channels (
hydraulic diameter with a gas phase porosity of 0.69), where
Pt has been dispersed in a γ-Al2O3 washcoat on a cordierite support, whose physical properties have been taken from Hayes, Kolaczkowski, Thomas, and Titiloye (1996). For the simultaneous reactor configuration, the temperature profile across the boundary separating the endothermic and exothermic reaction compartments has been assumed in pseudo-steady state. Because of the switching between the compartments, the same volume fraction and specific catalyst area and catalyst properties have been assumed for both the compartments.
Table 2. Model equations for the HSFMa
Catalyst energy equation:
Forward direction:
Gas phase overall continuity equation:
Gas phase continuity equation for component i:
Gas phase energy balance:
Backward direction:
Gas phase overall continuity equation:
Gas phase continuity equation for component i:
Gas phase energy balance:
a
The arrows, → and ← refer to the variables during forward or backward flow, respectively.
Table 3. Model equations for the DM for the sequential and simultaneous reactor configuration
Sequential reactor configuration:
Catalyst energy balance:
Gas phase overall continuity equation:
Gas phase continuity equation for component i:
Gas phase momentum balance:
Gas phase energy balance:
Simultaneous reactor configuration:
For both compartments k=1,2 (endothermic and exothermic):
Catalyst energy balance:
Gas phase overall continuity equation:
Gas phase continuity equation for reactant A:
Gas phase momentum balance:
Gas phase energy balance:
In part I the heterogeneous propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion are considered as simple first order irreversible reactions without mass transfer limitations. The pseudo-first order heterogeneous reaction rate constant and activation energy for the propane dehydrogenation is approximated using experimental results obtained by Loc et al. (1991) (
,
) and for the methane combustion using the results from Trimm and Lam (1980), which show that the reaction order in methane reduces to first order for very low reactant concentrations (
,
). In this part homogeneous combustion is ignored, as is the axial pressure drop.
Both the DM and the HSFM have been solved using a finite difference technique with Barton's second order scheme for the convective terms (e.g. Centrella & Wilson, 1984). From calculations, it has been concluded that for the reaction and reactor system under study with at least 1000 axial grid cells per meter reactor length and a time step less than
sufficiently accurate results are obtained. Generally, over a hundred complete cycles are required to completely obtain the cyclic steady state, although the main features of the temperature profiles clearly emerge after only about 20 full cycles.
With these models energy constraints to obtain a cyclic steady state are derived for both the sequential and simultaneous reactor configuration. Next, the operating conditions of the two different reactor configurations are compared. Before discussing the energy constraints and comparing the operating conditions the criteria on which this comparison is based are briefly outlined.
3. Design criteria
In an optimal design of a reverse flow reactor coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions a maximisation of the time averaged production of the products of the endothermic reaction phase is aimed for, while minimising the energy requirement in terms of fuel consumption during the exothermic reaction phase. Also maximum conversion for both the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases is pursued in order to minimise energy requirements for product separation and reactant recycles. This optimisation is subdued firstly by a maximum gas velocity, which depends mainly on the channel diameter and shape because of compression costs (pressure drop) or capital investments (reactor length). Secondly, a maximum allowable catalyst temperature limits the reactor optimisation. The maximum allowable temperature is mainly determined by, on the one hand, reaction kinetics and selectivities due to undesired side-reactions, or on the other hand, catalyst properties because of sintering of the washcoat or reduction in the dispersion of the active component. Thirdly, the fuel inlet concentration for the exothermic reaction phase should be below the lower explosion limit. These optimisation variables and constraints have been summarised in Table 4.
Table 4. Reactor optimisation variables and constraints for a given reactor and endothermic and exothermic reaction system
Empty Cell
Sequential reactor configuration Simultaneous reactor configuration
Operating variables
,
, Δtendo
,
,
, Δtexo
,
Product maximisation
Energy efficiency maximisation
(maximum pressure drop; reactor length)
Constraints
 (product yield; catalyst properties)
(lower explosion limit)
Energy integration using the reverse flow concept results in high temperatures in the centre of the catalyst bed, while low temperatures can be maintained at the reactor ends. The temperature profile in a reverse flow reactor cannot be controlled directly, but results from the chosen operating conditions. The maximum temperature in the reactor is mainly determined by the operating conditions during the exothermic reaction phase. The reactor configuration, flow direction or reaction phase switching scheme and cycling times and the endothermic reaction conditions have only marginal influence on the maximum temperature in the cyclic steady state. In Appendix A it is shown that the dimensionless maximum temperature,
, in a reverse flow reactor with a single first order exothermic reaction depends on the operating conditions via a single dimensionless number Θ, referred to as the maximum-temperature-number, defined as
(1)
according to a monotonously increasing function given by
(2)
In order to avoid extinction and to achieve a cyclic steady state in a reverse flow reactor coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions, the operating conditions of the endothermic reaction phase need to be matched to those of the exothermic reaction phase. For a given reaction system and endothermic and exothermic reactions the variables available for tuning are the inlet reactant concentrations, inlet mass fluxes and—for the sequential reactor configuration—the switching scheme and the flow direction and reaction phase cycles times. Due to the different reactor behaviour of the sequential and simultaneous reactor configuration the energy constraints will be discussed separately.
4. Sequential reactor configuration
Starting with a simple overall energy balance the dynamic reactor behaviour is studied in increasing detail, from the HSFM to the DM, leading to new energy constraints to obtain a cyclic steady state.
4.1. Overall energy balance
Firstly, a cyclic steady state can only be achieved, if the total energy production during the exothermic reaction phase cycle exceeds the total energy consumption during the consecutive endothermic reaction phase cycle, because of energy losses by convective gas transport at the reactor outlet (heat losses through the reactor wall are neglected). Considering the reactor as a black-box, the overall energy balance reads
(3)
which after rearanging yields
(4)
stating that the multiplication of the ratios of inlet mass fluxes, inlet reactant mass fractions and cycle times of the endothermic reaction phase compared to the exothermic reaction phase is bounded by the ratio of the reaction enthalpy of the exothermic reaction and the endothermic reaction.
4.2. Matching of Damköhler numbers
While still satisfying the overall energy balance, different sets of operating conditions can be selected. In Fig. 3 the influence of different sets of operating conditions, all satisfying the overall energy balance, on the axial profiles in the cyclic steady state are shown for the sequential reactor configuration obtained from the HSFM. In these calculations, the operating conditions of the endothermic reaction phase have been kept the same in order to keep the total energy demand for the endothermic conversions constant. The reactor length has been chosen long enough to avoid overlapping reaction zones. Also the total amount of energy which can be produced during the exothermic reaction phase is kept constant in these calculations and somewhat larger than necessary for the endothermic process step to account for convective heat losses avoiding extinction of the reactor. Fig. 3 clearly shows that the cyclic steady state axial temperature and mass fraction profiles strongly depend on the choice of operating conditions. The operating conditions influence firstly the axial position of the reaction zones in the reactor, and secondly the relative position of the endothermic and exothermic reaction zones.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Influence of the exothermic reaction phase operating conditions on the axial profiles of the catalyst temperature and the gas phase mass fraction at forward gas flow normalised with the inlet mass fraction for the sequential reactor configuration using the HSFM. Endothermic operating conditions are kept constant (
,
,
. (a) Variation of
and
(keeping
: 1.
; 2.
,
; 3.
,
. (b) Variation of
and Δtexo (keeping
: 1.
,
; 2.
,
; 3.
,
. (c) Variation of
and Δtexo (keeping
): 1.
,
; 2.
; 3.
.
The position of the reaction zones is determined by the inlet temperature gradient and the ignition temperature of the exothermic reaction. Using the HSFM, it has been found that the inlet temperature gradient increases linearly with increasing exothermic reactant inlet mass fractions and decreases linearly with increasing inlet gas velocities in case the effective axial heat transport is completely dominated by gas convection (see Appendix A). At higher inlet reactant mass fractions and lower inlet gas velocities the temperature gradient is larger and the exothermic reaction reaches its ignition temperature at an axial position closer to the feed inlet.
Furthermore, the relative position of the endothermic and exothermic reaction zones determines whether a constant temperature plateau at the maximum temperature is formed at the centre of the monolith, or whether temperature maxima are created near the inlet and outlet with a low temperature plateau while the maximum temperature varies with time. The first situation arises when the exothermic reaction zone is located more inward compared to the endothermic reaction zone, and the latter when the opposite is true, as can be clearly seen from Figs. 3a and b. Moreover, in case the endothermic reaction zone is located more inward than the exothermic reaction zone, full conversion is not reached during both the endothermic and exothermic reaction phase due to the resulting unfavourable temperature profile, despite the fact that sufficient energy has been introduced during the exothermic reaction phase. The endothermic reaction has consumed all possible energy at the centre of the reactor, rendering the centre of the reactor ineffective for both the endothermic and exothermic reactions. Besides, it should be noted that at the temperature plateau no conversion takes place, allowing a reduction of the reactor length.
In order to achieve maximum conversion during the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases maximising the overall energy efficiency and to obtain an advantageous temperature profile with a constant temperature plateau at the maximum design temperature, not only the total amount of energy transferred from the exothermic to the endothermic reaction phase needs to tuned, also the axial position relative to the heat front where the exothermic reaction delivers energy and where the endothermic reaction consumes energy needs to be adjusted. This matching of the reaction zones, or Damköhler numbers, can only be achieved by adjusting the exothermic inlet gas velocity to the endothermic inlet gas velocity according to at least the inverse of the ratio of their reaction constants. Generally, the exothermic fuel combustion reaction rate is much larger than the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction rate, so that Damköhler-matching results in much higher gas velocities during the exothermic reaction phase compared to the endothermic reaction phase.
4.3. Zero differential creep velocity
An ignited cyclic steady state can only be achieved, if the distance the heat fronts cover are equal in both flow directions, presuming that the reactor length exceeds this distance by far. This is referred to as ‘zero differential creep velocity’ by Kulkarni (1996). The heat front velocity during an exothermic reaction phase is always lower than that during an endothermic reaction phase with the same operating conditions due to the heat released by the exothermic reactions. During the endothermic reaction phase the heat front seems to move with two different velocities, one below and one above the endothermic ‘ignition’ temperature. Using a homogeneous model and neglecting dispersion terms and assuming constant physical properties, it can easily be derived that the heat front velocity (for exothermic reactions) can be well approximated by (Froment, 1990)
(5)
If a switching scheme were selected where the endothermic reactants are always fed from one side of the reactor and the exothermic reactants always from the opposite side, the gas velocity or reaction cycle time of the endothermic or exothermic reaction phase needs to be adjusted in order to achieve zero differential creep velocity. The relevant expression is given by
(6)
How to adjust the exothermic and endothermic reaction phase cycle times to achieve a cyclic steady state was extensively studied by Kulkarni (1996), Kulkarni and Dudukovic (1996) and Kulkarni and Dudukovic (1997). In this way, the energy requirement of zero differential creep velocity limits the operational window of the reverse flow reactor.
However, if the endothermic and exothermic reactants are both fed at both reactor ends with equal operating conditions when feeding from either side, zero differential creep velocity is inherently attained, without any additional requirements on the gas velocities and reaction cycle times. Switching schemes, represented by a sequence of process steps, with inherently zero differential creep velocity can be classified in three categories:
I.
Higher reaction phase switching frequency than flow direction switching frequency
a.
The exothermic reaction phase first
b.
The endothermic reaction phase first
II.
Equal reaction phase and flow direction switching frequencies
III.
Higher flow direction switching frequency than reaction phase switching frequency
When counting the number of reaction phase or flow direction switches, it should be noted that there could be an additional reaction phase or flow direction switch at the end of the switching scheme. For the operating conditions listed in Table 5, the influence of the switching scheme on the cyclic steady state axial temperature and concentration profiles is presented in Fig. 4, which will be shortly discussed below. Here, only a complete cycle consisting of four process steps is considered. Similar temperature and concentration profiles will be obtained for switching schemes with inherently zero differential creep velocity consisting of more process steps.
Table 5. Operating conditions used to study the influence of the switching scheme for the DM (reactor length has been set to
)
Empty Cell
Endothermic reaction phase Exothermic reaction phase
Inlet reactant mass fraction
(dimensionless) 1.0 0.0030
Inlet gas velocity
0.05 2.0
Reaction cycle time
180 180
Download : Download full-size image
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. (a) Influence of the switching scheme with zero differential creep velocity on the axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) for the sequential reactor configuration using the DM (
indicate the beginning and end of the forward and the beginning and end of the backward cycle, respectively). Operating conditions are listed in Table 5. Switching scheme I.a:
, (b) switching scheme I.b:
.
In Fig. 4a axial profiles in the cyclic steady state for switching scheme Ia are shown. The axial profiles of the catalyst temperature are shown at the end of every process step and the axial profiles of the gas phase mass fraction (normalised with the inlet mass fraction) are presented at the beginning and end of each process step. For switching scheme Ia the complete cycle starts with the last axial temperature profile from the previous cycle (indicated by the dashed line and
). Feeding exothermic reactants from the left side creates a temperature peak while shifting the temperature fronts to the right. During the subsequent feeding of endothermic reactants at the same inlet position, the energy stored during the exothermic phase is completely withdrawn. The distance the heat fronts cover during the endothermic phase is smaller than the distance during the exothermic phase due to the large difference in gas velocities because of the Damköhler-matching. Subsequently, the flow direction is reversed and the same reaction sequence is carried out, finally resulting in a symmetrical axial temperature profile in the cyclic steady state with a temperature plateau in the centre of the reactor. As discussed before, the height of the temperature plateau strongly depends on the matching of the endothermic and exothermic Damköhler numbers.
When the order of the reaction phases is reversed, similar symmetrical temperature profiles are obtained (see Fig. 4b). Interestingly, the temperature plateau is somewhat higher for switching scheme Ib (
) compared to switching scheme Ia (
). As can be clearly seen in the mass fraction profiles, the exothermic reaction zone is located more inward and the endothermic reaction zone more outward for switching scheme Ib as opposed to switching scheme Ia, causing a better energy accumulation and thus a higher plateau temperature.
Also switching schemes II and III give similar temperature profiles, however, with a small slope in the temperature plateau (see Van Sint Annaland, 2000). For switching scheme II (asynchronous switching of the gas flow direction and the reaction phase) a small positive slope in the temperature plateau results because of the asymmetry in the switching scheme. This asymmetry causes a difference in the relative positions of the endothermic and exothermic reaction zones for both reactor ends, so that the left side of the temperature profiles matches with those of switching scheme Ia and the right side with those of switching scheme Ib.
Remarkably also for switching scheme III, where the flow direction is reversed more often than the reaction phase, the cyclic steady state temperature profiles are asymmetric, although the switching scheme is symmetric. The resulting negative slope in the temperature ‘plateau’ is again explained by the difference in the relative positions of the endothermic and exothermic reaction zones, caused by the different operating conditions selected for the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases.
Concluding, for the sequential reactor configuration similar temperature profiles are obtained for the different switching schemes with inherently zero differential creep velocity, only differing in the location of the temperature maximums and the height and slope of the temperature plateau. The maximum temperature is the same for all switching schemes (ca.
), as expected, since the exothermic operating conditions have been kept the same. The analytical approximation for the maximum temperature for the exothermic reaction conditions under consideration is
, where the physical properties have been calculated at the maximum temperature.
In these calculations, the outlet gas temperature is relatively high due to the relatively high exothermic inlet fraction chosen for these calculations. In the cyclic steady state, the time-averaged gas outlet temperature equals the net difference between the energy consumed during the endothermic reaction phase and the energy produced during the exothermic reaction phase. Decreasing the exothermic inlet fraction results in a decrease of gas outlet temperature, until extinction occurs when the energy production during the exothermic reaction phase has become insufficient to deliver the energy required for the endothermic conversions and to account for convective heat losses. The minimum exothermic inlet mass fraction where extinction is still prevented is a measure for the energy efficiency of the reactor and the switching scheme, provided that the same reactor length and gas velocities are selected. The reaction coupling energy efficiency is defined as the ratio of the theoretical minimum exothermic inlet mass fraction without heat losses and the minimum exothermic inlet mass fraction still avoiding extinction.
To determine the most energy efficient switching scheme the minimum exothermic inlet mass fractions have been calculated using the DM (see Table 6). Switching scheme Ib, where the exothermic reaction zone is positioned the most inward, has the highest reaction coupling energy efficiency. The HSFM-switching scheme, resembled by switching scheme III in the limit of many flow direction switches before alternating the reaction phase, is the least energy efficient switching scheme, having the exothermic reaction zone located most outwardly. The differences in reaction coupling energy efficiencies for the different switching schemes are, however, marginal. For all switching schemes, reaction coupling energy efficiencies over 96% have been found for the chosen reactor length. In Fig. 5 the cyclic steady state profiles are shown for switching scheme Ib at the minimum exothermic inlet concentration. Note the overlapping reaction zones for both reaction phases. The energy efficiency of switching schemes with more reaction phase switches before alternating the flow direction is only marginally higher, although a much longer reactor is needed.
Table 6. Minimum exothermic inlet mass fraction still preventing blow out
for different switching schemes with zero differential creep velocity in the sequential reactor configuration with the operating conditions in Table 5. The theoretical minimum exothermic inlet mass fraction neglecting convective heat losses is 0.00221
Switching scheme
Empty Cell
I.a
0.00228
I.b
0.00226
II
0.00227
III
0.00230
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. The axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) for the most energy efficient switching scheme (Ib) at the minimum exothermic inlet mass fraction just preventing extinction, for the sequential reactor configuration using the DM.
It should be realised that the reaction coupling energy efficiency strongly depends on the reactor length chosen. At lower exothermic inlet mass fractions the initial temperature gradient is much lower and the ignition temperature is reached further inside the reactor. The economically optimal energy efficiency results from a compromise between investment costs (reactor length) and operating costs (fuel consumption).
5. Simultaneous reactor configuration
In the simultaneous reactor configuration the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed continuously and simultaneously to two different compartments. The reactants can be fed at the same reactor end or at opposite reactor ends, referred to as co-current and counter-current operation, respectively.
The reactor behaviour of the co-currently-operated simultaneous reactor configuration is very similar to the reactor behaviour of the sequential reactor configuration, especially for small reaction cycle times. It is assumed that the inlet and outlet positions for both the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases are switched concurrently, for there is no obvious reason to switch asynchronously. Furthermore, switching of the endothermic and exothermic compartments has no effect on the dynamic reactor behaviour, when energy effects during catalyst regeneration can be ignored.
The simultaneous reactor in counter-current operation is actually not a reverse flow reactor, since the flow direction is not alternated and a real steady state is obtained, in contrast to the sequential reactor configuration and the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration. However, the reactor behaviour is very similar to asymmetric reverse flow reactors, also allowing recuperative heat exchange inside the reactor (Kulkarni, 1996; Frauhammer et al., 1999).
The overall energy balance for the simultaneous reactor configuration in both operation modes is identical to the overall energy balance for the sequentially operated reactor configuration for equal reaction cycle times,
(7)
5.1. Co-current operation
Firstly, zero differential creep velocity is trivial if the cycle times for flow direction switching are chosen equal. Furthermore, as for the sequential reactor configuration, also for the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration the reaction zones of the endothermic and exothermic reactions need to be tuned in order to form a temperature plateau at high temperatures in the centre of the reactor in the cyclic steady state and to achieve maximum conversion for both reaction phases.
In Fig. 6 it is shown that this can be achieved by choosing the Damköhler number of the exothermic reaction phase smaller than the Damköhler number of the endothermic reaction phase. Furthermore, the maximum catalyst temperature for the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration is somewhat lower than the maximum catalyst temperature for the sequential reactor configuration, due to the immediate heat transfer from the exothermic to the endothermic compartment. In Fig. 6 infinitely fast heat transfer between the endothermic and exothermic compartments has been assumed, as is the case for the very thin channel walls of a monolithic catalyst, where the endothermic and exothermic reactions are carried out in adjoining channels in chessboard-like arrangement. Remarkably, the maximum temperature does not necessarily increase in case of less efficient heat transfer between the compartments. Due to obstruction of heat transfer from the exothermic reaction phase to the endothermic reaction phase, less efficient heat transfer actually leads to a better matching of the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones in this case, resulting in somewhat lower maximum temperatures (see Fig. 7).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Influence of the exothermic reaction phase operating conditions on the axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and gas phase mass fraction at forward gas flow normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) for the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration with constant endothermic operating conditions:
. The flow direction is reversed every 30 s and infinite heat transfer rate between the endothermic and exothermic compartments (λs/δs→∞) has been assumed. Selected values for
and
: 1.
,
; 2.
; 3.
,
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Influence of the heat transfer rate between the endothermic and exothermic compartments (λs/δs) on the axial catalyst temperature profile for the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration, for the following operating conditions:
,
,
. The flow direction is reversed every
. 1.
, 2.
.
Finally, comparably high reaction coupling efficiencies can be accomplished in the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration as in the sequential reactor configuration (
).
5.2. Counter-current operation
For the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration firstly the steady state is studied when endothermic and exothermic reactants are continuously fed to the same compartment. Thereafter, the dynamic response to switching of compartments—necessary for catalyst regeneration—is reported.
In contrast to the earlier configurations described, in counter-current operation the endothermic and exothermic reaction zones are located at opposite reactor ends and do not overlap for sufficiently long reactors. Assuming that the operating conditions have been set such that the overall energy balance is satisfied, a steady state can only be attained if the gas velocities of both reaction phases are tuned according to the heat front velocities that both reaction phases would obtain if there would be no heat exchange between the compartments. This result can easily be derived using a partial energy balance for either reaction zone. The partial energy balance over the exothermic reaction zone states that the energy produced by the exothermic reactions equals the difference in energy required for heating the exothermic reactants and the energy gained by cooling the endothermic products,
(8)
Assuming constant heat capacities this can be rearranged into
(9)
Substitution of the heat front velocities for the exothermic and endothermic reaction phases if there would be no heat exchange between the compartments, wexo and wendo, respectively, referred to as pseudo-heat front velocities, results in
(10)
where the pseudo-front velocities for the exothermic and endothermic reaction phases are, respectively, given by
(11)
(12)
The partial energy balance thus states that the heat front velocities of the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases in case of no heat exchange must be equal to obtain a steady state, neglecting convective heat losses. It should be noted that because of this partial energy balance the ratio of gas velocities is fixed and only a small lasting deviation in this ratio can be allowed due to the convective heat losses (see Fig. 8). If the pseudo-heat front velocity in the exothermic compartment exceeds the pseudo-heat front velocity in the endothermic compartment, a temperature peak will move through the catalyst bed from the exothermic feed inlet towards the endothermic feed inlet and in time the reactor will extinguish. In the reverse case, when the exothermic pseudo-heat front velocity is lower than the endothermic pseudo-heat front velocity, a steady state can be attained at the cost of a much lower conversion in the endothermic compartment. However, the dynamic response of the axial catalyst temperature profile to variations in the gas velocities is extremely slow.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. (a) The axial profiles of the catalyst temperature and gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction for the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration. The pseudo-heat front velocity during the exothermic reaction phase is approximately equal to the pseudo-heat front velocity during the endothermic reaction phase (wexo≈wendo) (operating conditions:
. (b) The axial profiles of the catalyst temperature and gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction for the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration. The pseudo-heat front velocity during the exothermic reaction phase is smaller than the pseudo-heat front velocity during the endothermic reaction phase (wexo<wendo) (operating conditions:
,
and (c) evolution of the axial profile of the catalyst temperature for the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration. The pseudo-heat front velocity during the exothermic reaction phase is larger than the pseudo-heat front velocity during the endothermic reaction phase (wexo>wendo) (time in s) (operating conditions:
.
Because the exothermic reaction zone is located very close to the exothermic feed inlet, the convective heat losses are relatively large, resulting in much lower reaction coupling efficiencies for the counter-current operation (ca. 70%) compared to the other reactor configurations described. Frauhammer et al. (1999) used inactive sections to shift the exothermic reaction zone further away from the inlet, thereby increasing the reaction coupling efficiency. However, inactive sections strongly increase the maximum temperature.
5.2.1. Effect of switching of compartments
Switching of compartments in a counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration can be carried out with and without simultaneous switching of the inlet and outlet positions (switching form operation mode (e) to (f) or from (e) to (h) in Fig. 2, respectively). Only in case the inlet and outlet positions are fixed and only the reactant feed streams are exchanged, a transient response of the temperature profiles is induced by the switching of the compartments, again neglecting energy effects during catalyst regeneration.
In Fig. 9, the development of the catalyst temperature profile is shown when the feed streams to the compartments are switched after
from start-up. Upon switching, the existing temperature peak is consumed while a new temperature peak is created on the same reactor side as the existing temperature peak. This temperature peak then moves towards the other reactor end. However, before a new steady state can be reached, this temperature peak is pushed back out of the reactor and unfortunately the reactor extinguishes after a very long time.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Dynamic response of the axial catalyst temperature profile for the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration to switching of the compartments after
, while fixing the inlet and outlet positions (operating conditions:
,
(time in s).
Remarkably, if the compartments are switched every
extinction can be avoided (see Fig. 10). In this new cyclic steady state a new temperature peak is created close to the exothermic feed inlet, because of higher remaining temperatures as a result from faster compartment switching.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Dynamic response of the axial catalyst temperature profile for the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration to switching of the compartments every
, while fixing the inlet and outlet positions (operating conditions:
,
,
(time in s).
6. Comparison of reactor configurations
It has been shown that indirect coupling of the propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion can be effectively integrated with recuperative heat exchange in both reactor configurations. Especially, for the sequential reactor configuration and the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration very high reaction coupling energy efficiencies can be achieved (⩾96%). The reaction coupling energy efficiency for the counter-current simultaneous reactor configuration is ca. 70% for the same endothermic production capacity.
In the sequential reactor configuration catalyst regeneration is achieved during the exothermic reaction phase. In the simultaneous reactor configuration catalyst regeneration requires compartment switching, which effects the reactor behaviour only for the counter-current operation mode with fixed inlet and outlet positions. For this operation mode, compartment switching induces a cyclic steady state for appropriate switching times.
When optimising the operating conditions for a sequential or simultaneous reverse flow reactor coupling the endothermic propane dehydrogenation and exothermic methane combustion, the energy constraints discussed above (summarised in Table 7) have to be satisfied in order to effectuate an ignited cyclic steady state with maximum conversion during both reaction phases. Furthermore, additional constraints on the operating conditions need to be taken into account, of which a maximum catalyst temperature, maximum gas velocity and maximum exothermic inlet mass fraction are the most important.
Table 7. Energy constraints for the different reactor configurations
Empty Cell
Damköhler number or Overall energy balance
Empty Cell
heat front velocity matching
Empty Cell
Sequential configuration
Simultaneous configuration
Co-current
Counter-current
Firstly, it is very important to note that the axial catalyst temperature profile results from the dynamic reactor behaviour and can only be controlled indirectly by adjusting the exothermic inlet conditions. For the sequential reactor configuration, the maximum catalyst temperature is almost solely dependent on the exothermic inlet mass fraction and the inlet gas velocity with negligible influence of the switching scheme, cycle times and endothermic operating conditions. Also for the counter-current simultaneous reactor the maximum temperature is completely determined by the exothermic inlet conditions. Inactive sections flanking the catalyst bed have been proposed to control the maximum temperature (e.g. Eigenberger et al., 1988; Frauhammer et al., 1999). However, inert sections increase the maximum catalyst temperature. Due to immediate heat transfer between the endothermic and exothermic reaction zones in the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration the endothermic reaction conditions can influence the maximum catalyst temperature to some extent. Nevertheless, the maximum temperature constraint restricts the possible inlet conditions for the exothermic reaction phase.
Secondly, the ratio of the gas velocities need to be matched; for the sequential configuration and the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration according to the ratio of the Damköhler numbers and for the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor according to the ratio of the pseudo-heat front velocities. Since on the one hand combustion reactions are much faster than dehydrogenation reactions, and on the other hand the heat front velocity during the exothermic phase is lower than during the endothermic reaction phase, generally, the exothermic gas velocity has to be chosen higher than the endothermic gas velocity for all reactor configurations.
Maximum throughput during the endothermic reaction phase can thus be achieved by setting the exothermic gas velocity to the maximum allowable value,
(13)
At high gas velocities the maximum temperature can only be controlled by the exothermic inlet mass fraction,
(14)
with
(15)
For the reaction system under consideration, the exothermic inlet concentrations are well below the lower explosion limit and are low enough to assure wrong way behaviour.
Having specified the exothermic inlet mass fraction
, exothermic inlet gas velocity
and the endothermic inlet gas velocity
, the endothermic inlet mass fraction, multiplied with the ratio of the endothermic reaction cycle time to the exothermic reaction cycle time in case of the sequential reactor configuration,
, needs to be set according to the overall energy balance. For the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration the minimum endothermic inlet mass fraction is about 75% when the Damköhler numbers are matched (see Fig. 11). It should be realised that Damköhler-matching impose only an approximate minimum ratio of the exothermic to endothermic gas velocities. Higher endothermic mass fractions can be chosen, if the gas velocity ratio is increased accordingly following the overall energy balance. Furthermore, for the sequential reactor configuration the ratio of the reaction cycle times gives an extra opportunity to optimise the endothermic inlet mass fraction for optimal product yield independently of the gas velocity ratio, however, at constant time-averaged production capacity. It is emphasised that the optimisation of the endothermic inlet mass fraction and gas velocity is only possible if a switching scheme is selected with inherent zero differential creep velocity.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Operation window for the sequential reactor configuration and the simultaneous reactor configuration in co-current operation (setting the ratio of reaction phase cycle times to one).
For the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration the ratio of the gas velocities is fixed tightly according to the pseudo-heat front velocities and the maximum ratio of the endothermic and exothermic inlet mass fractions according to the overall energy balance. At high gas velocities the maximum temperature can only be controlled by the exothermic inlet mass fraction. Thereby also the endothermic inlet mass fraction is set, unfortunately to a very low mass fraction of only ca. 2.5% for the coupling of propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion (see Fig. 12). It is very questionable whether a reverse reactor with reaction coupling is interesting for such small inlet concentrations of endothermic reactants. At lower gas velocities the maximum temperature can also be controlled with the exothermic gas velocity, allowing an increase of the endothermic mass fraction, however, at the expense of much lower throughputs. Selecting a pure propane feed for the dehydrogenation, only an inlet gas velocity of
can be tolerated for the endothermic reaction phase for the counter-current simultaneous reactor, while an endothermic inlet gas velocity of
can be selected for the sequential and co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration, assuming
as a maximum inlet gas velocity. Maximum temperature control in a counter-current operation can only be accomplished with the unfavourable combination of relatively high throughput but small inlet concentrations, or high inlet concentrations but small throughput.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. Operation window for the simultaneous reactor configuration in counter-current operation.
7. Summary and conclusions
A new reactor concept for highly endothermic reactions at high temperatures with possible rapid but reversible catalyst deactivation based on the indirect coupling between endothermic and exothermic reactions and the reverse flow concept has been studied. Two different reactor configurations have been considered: the sequential reactor configuration and the simultaneous reactor configuration in co-current and counter-current operation mode. In the sequential reactor configuration, the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed discontinuously and sequentially to the same catalyst bed acting as an energy repository. In the simultaneous reactor configuration the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed continuously to two different compartments exchanging energy. Their reactor behaviour has been investigated via detailed numerical simulations.
Energy constraints to achieve an ignited cyclic steady state with maximum conversion for both the endothermic and exothermic reaction phases have been discussed. For the sequential reactor configuration and the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration, not only the total amount of energy transferred from the exothermic to the endothermic reaction phase needs to be tuned, but also the axial position relative to the heat front where the energy is released during the exothermic reaction phase and consumed during the endothermic reaction phase needs to be adjusted via matching of the Damköhler numbers. Furthermore, zero differential creep velocity—trivial for the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration—can be achieved in the sequential reactor configuration without additional constraints on the operating conditions by choosing an appropriate switching scheme. To avoid extinction in the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration the endothermic and exothermic gas velocities need to be set to attain equal pseudo-heat front velocities.
For the coupling of propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion over a monolithic platinum-based catalyst the maximum temperature constraint limits the operating conditions during the exothermic reaction zone and thus the total production capacity. It has been shown that the maximum temperature depends on a single dimensionless number for a single first order reaction. At high gas velocities this maximum-temperature-number depends only on the exothermic inlet mass fraction, so that control of the maximum temperature can only be achieved via the exothermic inlet concentration at high throughputs. Since the ratio of the endothermic and exothermic inlet mass fractions is fixed in the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration, a limiting maximum temperature constraint entails the unfavourable combination of a relatively high throughput with small inlet concentrations, or high inlet concentrations with a small throughput. Moreover, relatively low reaction coupling energy efficiencies (ca. 70 %) are obtained with the counter-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration.
With the sequential reactor configuration or the co-currently operated simultaneous reactor configuration much higher capacity for the production of the endothermic products can be achieved with very high reaction coupling energy efficiencies (⩾96%). Due to the choice of a switching scheme with inherent zero differential creep velocity, only in the sequential reactor configuration the endothermic inlet concentration can be optimised without adjusting the gas velocities, using the ratio of the endothermic to exothermic reaction cycle times.
Notation
specific external catalyst surface area,
heat capacity,
hydraulic channel diameter, m
D diffusivity,
axial dispersion coefficient for component
f friction coefficient, dimensionless
h external heat transfer coefficient,
partial molar enthalpy of component
reaction enthalpy,
activation energy,
pre-exponential first order heterogeneous reaction rate constant,
external mass transfer coefficient,
L reactor length, m
M (time-averaged) production capacity,
total number of components
p pressure, Pa
production rate of component j by heterogeneous reactions,
production rate of component j by homogeneous reactions,
R gas constant,
t time, s
reaction cycle time, s
T temperature, K
adiabatic temperature difference, K
axial interstitial gas velocity
w heat front velocity,
z axial position, m
Greek letters
thickness of support separating endothermic and exothermic compartments, m
Kronecker delta
difference between inlet and outlet (averaged over the reaction cycle time)
porosity,
conversion, dimensionless
energy efficiency, dimensionless
dimensionless temperature
conductivity,
effective heat dispersivity,
dimensionless axial position
density,
mass flux,
mass fraction,
Subscripts
avg average
c catalyst phase
g gas phase
in at the inlet
component
compartment
max maximum
min minimum
out at the outlet
s support separating endothermic and exothermic compartments
Superscripts
endo endothermic reaction phase
exo exothermic reaction phase
het heterogeneous reactions
hom homogeneous reactions
Dimensionless numbers
Damköhler number
Peclet number of heat transport
dimensionless adiabatic temperature
dimensionless initial temperature gardient
Maximum temperature number
Symbols
forward flow
backward flow
forward flow, at the beginning of the cycle
forward flow, at the end of the cycle
backward flow, at the beginning of the cycle
backward flow, at the end of the cycle
Acknowledgements
The financial support b y the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (N.W.O.) is gratefully acknowledged.
Appendix A. Maximum temperature in a reverse flow reactor
Based on a pseudo-homogeneous HSFM, an approximate analytical expression can be obtained for the maximum temperature in a reverse flow reactor for a single exothermic reaction with first order reaction kinetics in case of non-overlapping reaction zones according to (Nieken, Kolios, & Eigenberger, 1995)
(A.1)
with an effective axial heat dispersion consisting of axial conduction in the solid phase and a contribution by convective heat transport in the gas phase,
(A.2)
In case of negligible mass transfer limitations, the maximum temperature can be well approximated for ideal gases by the following transcendental equation in the dimensionless maximum catalyst temperature
, using the integral approximation given by Agrawal and Sivasubramanian (1987),
(A.3)
with
where the following dimensionless temperatures have been defined:
(A.4)
Assuming that the inlet gas temperature is much lower than the ignition temperature, as usual in closed-loop reverse flow reactors, the equation reduces to
(A.5)
The dimensionless maximum temperature is a unique function of a single parameter, Θ, referred to as the maximum-temperature-number, which is defined as
(A.6)
introducing the following dimensionless numbers:
(A.7)
The maximum temperature is a monotonously increasing function of the maximum-temperature-number (see Fig. 13).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. The dimensionless maximum catalyst temperature
as a function of the maximum-temperature-number Θ, comparing the HSFM- and MHF-predictions with the HSFM- and DM-simulations for methane combustion. (The inlet methane mass fraction was varied in the simulations between 0.001 and 0.006.)
Using the approximate HSFM-expression for the temperature gradient at the inlet and outlet of reverse flow reactors (Nieken et al., 1995),
(A.8)
or alternatively in terms of dimensionless numbers
(A.9)
the maximum-temperature-number can be written as the ratio of the dimensionless inlet temperature gradient and the Damköhler number,
(A.10)
The famous wrong way behaviour of reverse flow reactors, i.e. lower maximum temperatures for faster reactions, is clearly visible through the inverse proportionality of the maximum-temperature-number to the Damköhler number. Furthermore, the maximum-temperature-number is independent of the inlet gas temperature because of the reciprocal dependency of the inlet gas density on the inlet gas temperature.
For high gas velocities the effective axial heat dispersion is dominated by the gas convection term, so that the maximum-temperature-number (and thus the maximum temperature) becomes independent of the gas mass flux and linearly dependent on the inlet reactant mass fraction,
(A.11)
For high gas velocities the temperature gradient increases linearly with increasing inlet mass fraction and decreasing mass flux,
(A.12)
A.1. Comparison with literature and simulations
The above described equation to predict the maximum temperature in a reverse flow reactor has been derived using the HSFM, where a reactor of finite length is considered with infinitely high flow reversal frequency, causing the temperature fronts to be stationary at the inlet and outlet. In addition to the above-derived maximum temperature equation, referred to as the HSFM-prediction, an expression to approximate the maximum temperature has been derived considering a moving heat front with constant velocity in an infinitely long reactor without flow reversal (Matros, 1990; Matros & Bunimovich, 1997). The equation given by Matros (1990) reduces to the equation given by Matros and Bunimovich (1997), if the reference temperature is set to the maximum temperature (which is necessary to obtain reasonable results). Interestingly, also their maximum temperature equation, referred to as the moving heat front (MHF)-prediction, can be rewritten in terms of the dimensionless maximum-temperature-number. Neglecting mass transfer limitations and assuming full conversion their maximum temperature relation can be converted to the following expression (using the symbols defined in this work):
(A.13)
In a reverse flow reactor the maximum temperature usually considerably exceeds the sum of the inlet temperature and the adiabatic temperature rise, resulting in a large Zeldovich number, so that the last term in squared brackets approaches one. Furthermore, at high gas velocities the contribution of axial energy dispersion by gas convection largely exceeds that of energy conduction through the catalyst channel walls. Then the equation reduces to
(A.14)
In Fig. 13 the HSFM and the MHF predictions for the maximum temperature are compared with several methane combustion simulations using the HSFM and the DM, for different values of the maximum temperature number by varying different parameters and operating conditions. The figure clearly shows that the HSFM-prediction gives a good correspondence with the simulation results and improves the MHF-prediction. Small deviations between the HSFM-predictions and the HSFM-simulations result from the temperature dependency of several physical properties and transport parameters not taken into account in the maximum temperature prediction.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
