<DOCUMENT>
Review of Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysis: From Model Surfaces to Supported Catalysts

1 Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
1.1 Unique Properties of Bimetallic Surfaces and Catalysts
The field of heterogeneous catalysis, specifically catalysis on bimetallic alloys, has seen many advances over the past few decades. Bimetallic catalysts, which often show electronic and chemical properties that are distinct from those of their parent metals, offer the opportunity to obtain new catalysts with enhanced selectivity, activity, and stability. Bimetallic catalysts started to gain considerable commercial interest in the 1960s for their use in hydrocarbon reforming because they displayed activities unlike those of the monometallic catalysts. (1-3) The findings of these unexpected properties of bimetallic catalysts have inspired many extensive investigations on their possible applications. Currently bimetallic catalysts are widely utilized in many catalytic (4) and electrocatalytic (5, 6) applications.
To understand the origins of the novel catalytic properties, bimetallic surfaces have also gained a considerable amount of interest for fundamental surface science research, as summarized in several earlier reviews. (7-9) It is now well-known that bimetallic surfaces often show novel properties that are not present on either of the parent metal surfaces. (7, 8, 10-23) The modification effect is especially important when the admetal coverage is in the submonolayer to monolayer regime. However, it is difficult to know a priori how the electronic and chemical properties of a particular bimetallic surface will be modified relative to the parent metals. For this reason, the study of bimetallic surfaces in the field of catalysis has gained considerable interest. There are two critical factors that contribute to the modification of the electronic and chemical properties of a metal in a bimetallic surface. First, the formation of heteroatom bonds changes the electronic environment of the metal surface, giving rise to modifications of its electronic structure through the ligand effect. Second, the geometry of the bimetallic structure is typically different from that of the parent metals, e.g., the average metal–metal bond lengths change, resulting in the strain effect that is known to modify the electronic structure of the metal through changes in orbital overlap. (16)
In the past decade there have been significant efforts in density functional theory (DFT) calculations and ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) experiments on bimetallic surfaces. One of the new findings is that, depending on experimental conditions, the monolayer admetal can interact with the host metal substrate in one of the three structures: occupying the topmost surface sites to produce the surface monolayer, diffusing into the subsurface region to form the subsurface monolayer, and alloying with the surface to produce intermixed bimetallic surfaces. DFT modeling results clearly indicate that the modification on the surface d-band center is significantly different for the three types of bimetallic structures. Surface science results, using several probe molecules, also confirm the different chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces with surface monolayer and subsurface monolayer structures. In addition, the combination of DFT modeling and experimental results reveal a general correlation between the position of the surface d-band center and the adsorption energy for various bimetallic structures, making it possible to predict bimetallic structures with desirable chemical properties.
1.2 Scope of the Current Review
Although studies on model bimetallic surfaces provide fundamental insight into the novel catalytic properties, in an industrially relevant supported catalyst the active metal will be present in the form of nanoparticles on a high-surface-area support. The primary objective of the current review is to provide correlations between model surfaces and supported catalysts for several types of catalytic reactions. In particular, we will attempt to bridge the “materials gap” between model surfaces and supported catalysts and the “pressure gap” between UHV environment and reaction environment. We will utilize successful examples, such as hydrogenation reactions, to demonstrate the feasibility of bridging the materials and pressure gaps between model surfaces and real-world catalysis. We will also use other reactions to point out the challenges in applying fundamental surface science studies to predict stable bimetallic structures for catalysis.
Because of the enormous volumes of work in bimetallic catalysis, in the current review we will focus on Pt-based bimetallic surfaces and catalysts. The reasons for choosing Pt-based bimetallic systems are primarily 2-fold: (i) they are the most well-studied bimetallic surfaces using both DFT calculations and surface science experiments, and (ii) they are among the most commonly used bimetallic catalysts in both catalytic and electrocatalytic applications. In addition, other bimetallic catalysts without Pt also have interesting properties and important applications. In many cases, the benefits of Pt-free bimetallic alloys are similar to those achieved with Pt. These bimetallic combinations also have similarly modified electronic properties that lead to increased activity and selectivity. (24) For example, Au–Ag catalysts are active for CO oxidation because the synergistic interaction between the two metals improves the catalytic performance. In this case, Au adsorbs CO molecules and the neighboring Ag adsorbs reactive oxygen species. (25) Non-noble metal bimetallic catalysts are also of interest because of the potential savings in material cost. The Ni–Cu system is one example that has been previously studied for the hydrolysis of NaBH4 to release hydrogen. (26) Although non-Pt-containing systems have important applications, the scope of this review article is limited to Pt-based catalysts to provide a focused and in-depth review of bimetallic catalysis. In section 2 we will utilize one of the most thoroughly studied bimetallic systems, Ni/Pt, to introduce the preparation procedures and common characterization techniques for both bimetallic surfaces and supported catalysts. This will be followed in section 3 by DFT calculations and experimental verification of stable bimetallic structures under different reaction conditions. In section 4 we will summarize the unique properties and general trends of bimetallic surfaces and catalysts for different types of reactions, including hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, reforming, and oxidation reactions. The review will conclude by pointing out challenges and research opportunities for further advancing bimetallic catalysis.
2 Preparation and Characterization of Bimetallic Surfaces and Catalysts
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1 Model Surfaces
2.1.1 Preparation of Bimetallic Surfaces
Among the various deposition methods, physical vapor deposition (PVD) is most compatible with the UHV environment necessary for surface science studies. The PVD methods utilize line-of-sight deposition to produce a metal overlayer on the target substrate. The controlling parameters of typical PVD synthesis include the rate of metal vapor flux, time of deposition, substrate temperature, and deposition environment such as in vacuum or in the background of selected gases. Common PVD methods include magnetron sputtering, pulsed laser deposition, e-beam sputtering, and physical evaporation of the overlayer metal via thermal filament. Figure 1 shows the typical experimental setup of a metal source for thermal evaporation. The metal source consists of a thin (typically 0.2–0.5 mm) tungsten (W) or tantalum (Ta) wire, which is wrapped around with wire (typically 0.05–0.1 mm) of the metal of interest. The W or Ta wire is connected to the power supply through a UHV feedthrough to a DC or AC power supply for resistive heating. The extremely high melting temperature of the W or Ta filament allows deposition of the metal of interest without contamination from W or Ta. The evaporation filament is typically housed in a stainless steel cylinder, with a small opening at the front face of the cylinder to direct the metal deposition onto the substrate and to prevent the evaporation of metals onto other components in the UHV system. The metal source is gradually heated to the temperature of evaporation and held for a certain amount of time to achieve reproducible deposition of an impurity-free metal overlayer. Such conditioning of the source takes many hours, often at a current or voltage slightly higher than what is used for the metal deposition. The pressure in the UHV system should be 5 × 10–10 Torr or lower during evaporation to prevent the accumulation of background impurities on the bimetallic surface.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of line-of-sight deposition of metal overlayer by physical vapor deposition with thermal filament.
Procedures for the preparation of bimetallic surface structures under UHV conditions have been described in detail previously. (27, 28) For example, when a 3d transition metal is deposited onto a Pt(111) surface at 300 K, the 3d atoms stay on the topmost layer to produce the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface configuration. If this surface is subsequently heated to 600 K, or if the monolayer deposition of the 3d metal occurs with the Pt(111) substrate held at 600 K, most of the 3d atoms diffuse into the subsurface region to produce the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structure. As shown in Figure 2, monolayer bimetallic surfaces can have three idealized configurations: a surface 3d–Pt–Pt(111) configuration, where the metal monolayer grows epitaxially on the surface of the Pt substrate; an intermixed configuration, where the 3d atoms reside in the first two Pt layers to some varying degree; and the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) configuration, where the first layer is composed of Pt atoms and the second layer consists of the 3d atoms. Determination of the structures and elemental compositions of various bimetallic surfaces requires the utilization of a battery of UHV techniques, as described in the next section.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Idealized bimetallic surface structures with one monolayer of 3d metals on a Pt(111) substrate.
2.1.2 Common Characterization Techniques for Bimetallic Surfaces
Auger Electron Spectroscopy and X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy
The Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) peak-to-peak intensities and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) peak areas are often used to quantify the elemental compositions of bimetallic surfaces after normalization by the relevant sensitivity factors and consideration of the sampling depth of the Auger electrons or photoelectrons. (10) AES and XPS are also useful techniques to determine the growth mechanism of the metal overlayer, either in a layer-by-layer fashion or via 3-dimensional (3D) island formation. In the latter growth mechanism, a uniform monolayer is not formed because the cohesive energy between metal overlayer atoms (M–M) is generally higher than the adsorption energy between the metal overlayer and the substrate surface (M–S). The layer-by-layer and the 3D island growth mechanisms can often be differentiated by measuring the AES or XPS intensities as a function of deposition time. In the layer-by-layer mechanism, the peak intensity of both the metal overlayer and the substrate show distinct breaks, with the first break indicating the deposition time for the completion of the first monolayer. In contrast, such breaks are absent for the 3D island growth mechanism. (10) Because of the relative ease of these experiments, the AES or XPS growth calibration curves should be measured whenever a new overlayer/substrate system is investigated.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematics of surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structures derived from AES, low-energy ion scattering (LEIS), and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). (28)
Low-Energy Ion Scattering
Compared with AES and XPS, low-energy ion scattering (LEIS) (29) is much more sensitive in detecting the elemental composition of the topmost layer of bimetallic surfaces. In LEIS experiments, the surface is bombarded with positive ions of an inert element, such as He, Ne, or Ar, at a relatively low energy (100–5000 eV). The incident ions are scattered back with an energy that is directly related to the mass of the surface atom with which they collide. Because the ions have different sensitivities toward atoms of different atomic numbers, the intensity of the scattering peaks needs to be normalized to the intensity of a pure surface of each element. In the case of bimetallic surfaces, the sensitivity factor for the substrate is determined by measuring the intensity of the LEIS signal for a clean substrate surface and that of the thick metal film of interest.
Low-Energy Electron Diffraction
Low-energy electron diffraction (LEED) is a useful technique to determine the overlayer structure in bimetallic surfaces. LEED is very useful in identifying the periodicity of the metal overlayer with respect to the single-crystal substrate. (30, 31) For example, LEED studies have helped reveal that bimetallic alloy surfaces, such as Pt80Ni20(001), Pt80Co20(111), and Pt80Fe20(111), all exhibit a pure Pt outermost layer with a Pt-depleted layer underneath. (32) LEED measurements are also important to confirm the epitaxial growth of the metal overlayer.
Scanning Tunneling Microscopy
Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) is often used to determine the structure and morphology of the metal overlayer in bimetallic surfaces. In STM experiments a tip is scanned over a sample surface in a regular array, adjusting the height of the tip to keep either the tunneling current or the voltage constant between the STM tip and the surface. The fluctuations of intensity can often be related to differing elements, which is useful in determining the growth mechanism of the metal overlayer as well as the morphology of bimetallic surfaces.
2.1.3 Example: Characterization of Ni/Pt Bimetallic Surfaces
In this section we will illustrate the synthesis and characterization of bimetallic surfaces following the deposition of one monolayer of Ni on either a Pt(111) single crystal or a polycrystalline Pt substrate. The characterization of Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces is very useful in providing structural models for DFT calculations. It is also critical in correlating bimetallic structures with the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces. (10)
For example, Figure 3 shows the LEIS and AES results following the annealing of the 300 K Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface to 900 K. For the LEIS experiments (Figure 3a), Ni was deposited at 300 K and the initial coverage of Ni was ∼1 ML. After a small initial increase in the Ni intensity, possibly due to desorption of contaminant H2, the Ni intensity decreased significantly with increasing temperature until it became nearly undetectable by 800 K. There were corresponding increases in the Pt intensity as the annealing temperature increased. Similar trends were observed in the AES experiments (Figure 3b), which were performed at three different initial coverages. The Ni/Pt AES ratio underwent significant decreases at above 700 K, indicating the diffusion of Ni into regions that were beyond the detection limit of the AES measurements. (27, 28)
The STM images provided further characterization of the 300 and 640 K Ni/Pt(111) surfaces. As shown in Figure 3c, after deposition at 300 K, Ni atoms formed islands that were a single atomic layer thick and nucleated at the step edges of the Pt(111) surface. Upon annealing to 640 K, all of the island features disappeared, as shown in Figure 3d. The surface appeared fairly uniform, with many small, “wormlike” features, which were attributed to the strain caused by the subsurface Ni atoms in Pt(111). Overall, the AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM results confirmed the presence of a surface Ni monolayer on Pt(111) after the deposition of Ni at 300 K. The characterization following annealing to 600–640 K was consistent with the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface region of Pt(111); the possibility of the production of the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure, with Ni atoms staying directly underneath the surface Pt, was further suggested from DFT calculations and experimental measurements of chemical properties, as described later.
In practice, bimetallic catalysts are often supported nanoparticles of varying shape and size. Polycrystalline bimetallic films provide a potential way to bridge the “materials gap” between single-crystal surfaces and supported catalysts. As illustrated in Figure 4, it is reasonable to assume that the surface chemistry of the nanoparticle should be dominated primarily by the first few atomic layers. It is also reasonable to assume that the chemistry of the individual crystal facets on the nanoparticle (primarily (111) and (100) for a face-centered cubic (fcc) nanoparticle) can be approximated by their respective single-crystal extensions. With these assumptions, Menning and Chen deposited Ni on a polycrystalline Pt film that contained mainly the (111) and (100) facets to mimic supported bimetallic particles. (33) Similar to Pt(111), monolayer Ni was deposited on the polycrystalline Pt foil at room temperature to produce the Ni–Pt–Pt surface structure, followed by annealing to higher temperatures to obtain the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure. More about the similar catalytic properties between single-crystal Pt–Ni–Pt(111), polycrystalline Pt–Ni–Pt, and supported Pt–Ni catalysts will be illustrated later.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic of the (100) and (111) regions of a supported bimetallic particle. (200)
In addition to the examples given above, many UHV techniques have been utilized to characterize the surface structures of several bimetallic systems. Table 1 provides a list of selected bimetallic surfaces, along with the corresponding UHV techniques or theoretical calculations used to characterize the surface properties.
Table 1. Summary of Studies of Pt-Based Bimetallic Surfaces and the Corresponding Characterization Techniques and Computational Methods
surface technique surface technique
Pt/Co(111) DFT, (34) MD (35) Ni/Pt(111) AES, (28, 54, 64, 88-90) LEED, (28, 88-90) STM, (28) LEIS, (28) MCS, (91) DFT (64, 68, 92)
Pt/Cu(100) CAICISS, (36) LEED, (36-41) XPS, (36) LEIS, (36) PES, (40) BFS, (42) AES (41) Ni50Pt50(111) MCS (87)
Pt/Cu(111) DFT, (43) AES, (44, 45) TDS, (44) PES, (46) LEED, (45, 47) MEIS, (48) LEIS (47, 49, 50) Ni/Pt(997) STM (93)
PtAu cluster DFT (51) Pd/Pt(111) CV, (94) FTIR, (94) DFT, (95) SXS (96)
Pt/Ni(110) XPS, (52) LEED (52) Rh/Pt(100) STM, (97) LEED (97)
Pt/Ni(111) AES, (53, 54) DFT (34, 55) Rh/Pt(110) STM, (97) LEED (97)
Pt/Pd(111) PES (56, 57) Ru/Pt(100) LEED, (98) XPS, (98, 99) IRAS (99)
Al/Pt(111) XPS, (58) AES, (58) STM (58) Ag/Pt(100) STM, (100) AES (100)
Ce/Pt(111) LEED, (59) XPS (59) Ag/Pt(111) DFT, (43) PES, (101) STM (102, 103) LEED, (104-106) AES, (104, 105) UPS (104, 105)
Co/Pt(111) AES, (60-64) LEED, (61, 63, 65, 66) UPS, (61) STM, (65) DFT, (64, 67, 68) SMOKE, (62, 69, 70)MEIS (69, 70) Ag/Pt(997) PES (101)
Co20Pt80(111) IS, (71) MCS (71) Sn/Pt(100) AES, (107-109) STM, (107) LEED, (107-109) ALISS (109)
Cu/Pt(100) PAX, (72) AES, (72) LEED (72) Sn/Pt(111) AES, (110-112) LEED, (111-116) DFT, (117) XPS, (112, 113, 115) STM, (112) CV, (113) PES (114, 116)
Cu/Pt(111) HAS, (73) STM, (73) AES, (74, 75) PES (46) Ti/Pt(111) DFT (64, 68)
Cu/Pt(12 12 11) HAS, (76) MEIS (76) Tm/Pt(111) LEED, (118) XPS (118)
Cr/Pt(001) DFT (77) V/Pt(001) DFT (77)
Cr/Pt(111) STM, (78) DFT (64, 68) V/Pt(111) DFT (64, 68)
Au/Pt(111) XPS (79) Pt/Rh(100) LEIS, (119) PES, (120) LEED, (97) STM (97)
Au/polycrystalline Pt XPS, (80) TPD (80) Pt/Rh(110) LEED, (97) STM (97)
AuPt clusters DFT (51) Pt/Rh(111) AES, (121) UPS, (121) LEIS, (121) STM, (121) PAX (121)
Fe/Pt(111) DFT, (64, 68) XPS, (81) LEED, (81) LEIS (81) Pt25Rh75(410) LEIS (122)
Fe/Pt(997) TEAS, (82) AES (82) Pt/Ru(0001) STM (123-125)
La/Pt(111) PES, (83, 84) LEED (84) Pt/W(110) LEED, (126) ΔΦ, (126) AES (127)
Mn/Pt(001) DFT (77) Pt/W(111) HRXPS, (128) SXPS, (9, 129) AES, (9) LEED, (9) LEEM, (9, 130) TPD, (9) STM, (130) FEM (131)
Mn/Pt(111) DFT (64, 68) Pt/W(211) SXPS, (9, 132, 133) AES, (9, 132-134) LEED, (9, 133, 134) LEEM, (9) TPD, (9, 133, 134) DFT, (135) STM (134)
Mo/Pt(111) XPS, (85) LEED, (86) AES, (86) ΔΦ (86) Pt/Re(1121) LEED, (136) STM, (136) LEIS, (136) XPS (136)
Ni50Pt50(110) MCS (87)    
2.2 Supported Catalysts
2.2.1 Synthesis of Supported Bimetallic Catalysts
Supported bimetallic catalysts have been synthesized using a wide range of synthesis techniques. In this section we will provide a summary of some of the most commonly utilized synthesis methods and the potential advantages of each method.
Wet Impregnation Method
Incipient wetness impregnation is the most commonly utilized method because of its ease in sample preparation. It involves infusing the desired support material with a solution containing a precursor of the desired metallic species. The support is impregnated with a volume of precursor solution that is equal to the pore volume of the support material. The amount of precursor required is calculated based on the desired metal loading for each catalyst, and the volume of the pores of the support material is measured prior to impregnation using deionized water. (137) To synthesize the catalyst, a known mass of a metal precursor is dissolved in a solvent. Deionized water is the most commonly used solvent for wet impregnation, but research groups have also used Pt–acetylacetonates dissolved in toluene to avoid acidification of the support, (138) ethylene glycol, (139) formic acid, (140) and acetone. (141) Catalysts can also be prepared with organometallic bimetallic molecular precursors. These precursors are advantageous to traditional metallic salts because the bimetallic bond is already present, leading to a higher extent of bimetallic bonds and a higher activity of bimetallic catalysts. (142)
Once the precursor is fully dissolved, the solution is added dropwise to the support. Capillary action carries the aqueous solution up into the pores of the support, where the metal precursor is deposited. By varying the drying rate of the catalyst, the precursor can deposit deep within the pores or solely at the pore entrances. After drying, the catalyst is calcined at high temperature to vaporize the nonmetallic components of the precursor salt, leaving the metal in an oxidized state on the support surface. Calcination is required to stabilize metals on the support surface and to prevent metal dissolution when exposed to moisture. Incipient wetness impregnation of bimetallic catalysts can be performed sequentially or simultaneously. In sequential impregnation, one metal is impregnated first, and then the catalyst is dried and calcined. After calcination, the second metal is impregnated to complete the catalyst synthesis. Sequential impregnation is preferred in cases where the metal precursors react with each other, but it has been shown that simultaneous impregnation of a bimetallic catalyst yields a greater extent of bimetallic bond formation and higher activity. (143) For example, Lonergan et al. have shown that Pt–Ni catalysts synthesized by simultaneous impregnation were more active for 1,3-butadiene and benzene hydrogenation than catalysts synthesized using sequential impregnation. (143)
Slurry Synthesis Method
This method is used for synthesizing catalysts with high metal loadings and/or supports with low surface areas. The slurry is made with the support material, metal precursor, and water. The amounts of support and precursor are chosen to achieve the desired weight loading of catalyst, and typically ∼15 mL of deionized water is used for each gram of catalyst. After mixing the components, the slurry is stirred for at least 8 h, during which an equilibrium amount of the precursor should adsorb to the support. (144) During stirring, the pH value is controlled to a set level using NaOH. Once the set stirring time has elapsed, the slurry is filtered and washed and then placed in a drying oven to evaporate the excess water. Catalysts are calcined at high temperatures after drying to stabilize the metal on the support and to remove unwanted elements from the metal precursors. This synthesis method has been used to prepare catalysts for the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics, which shows that adding a small amount of Pt to an Au/TiO2 catalyst increases the hydrogenation activity by an order of magnitude. (144)
Organometallic Cluster Precursors
Metal segregation, sintering, surface enrichment of one of the metals, and the inherent heterogeneity of bimetallic particles make the preparation of highly dispersed and uniform bimetallic particles difficult with conventional impregnation and slurry methods. (145) The dispersion of the active phase on the surface of a support is controlled by many factors, including the support type, method of preparation, calcination conditions, precursors, and metal loading. (146) A common problem of impregnation and slurry techniques is the separation of the precursor ions as they pass through the pore structure of the support, preventing the effective formation of the bimetallic bonds. An improved method to achieve higher uniformity of bimetallic catalysts is to adsorb ligand-stabilized bimetallic molecular precursors onto the support and then thermally remove the ligands. (147) For example, a bimetallic cluster, [(PPh3)Pt(AuPPh3)6](NO3)2, is used to prepare a Pt–Au catalyst particle, previously described in detail for different bimetallic precursors. (148) The organometallic cluster is mixed with an organic solvent such as CH2Cl2, and the cluster solution is slowly added to the oxide support with constant swirling. The clusters are spontaneously adsorbed onto the oxide support, and the remaining solvent is decanted. Residual solvent is removed by heating in vacuum, and the clusters are activated by heating in oxygen up to 573 K. Studies have shown that the bimetallic core of the cluster remains intact while the ligands are removed after heating. (145) In probe reactions of ethanol reforming, bimetallic catalysts synthesized with organometallic clusters outperformed catalysts synthesized using traditional impregnation methods. (149)
Reductive Deposition Precipitation
This is a useful method to produce highly coordinated bimetallic catalysts from monometallic catalysts. It is an alternative to the organometallic precursor method, which sometimes experiences premature decomposition of the organometallic complex, leading to inactive phases on the catalyst support. (140) In reductive deposition precipitation, a monometallic catalyst, for example, Pt, is prepared by conventional wet impregnation or slurry methods and then held under hydrogen. The hydrogen atoms adsorbed on the Pt particles react with a second metal precursor, resulting in the formation of a bimetallic surface complex. The surface complex is decomposed in hydrogen, leading to formation of a stabilized bimetallic species. (150) However, this method does not exclusively lead to formation of bimetallic particles, with some of the second metal precursor also depositing on the support. (151) Ekou et al. have shown that Pt–Ge/TiO2 catalysts synthesized using the reductive deposition precipitation method are active for the selective hydrogenation of citral into unsaturated alcohols. (152)
Electroless Deposition
This method is similar to reductive deposition but uses a controlled chemical reaction, catalyzed by Pt, to deposit a metal salt onto an activated metal site of a preexisting monometallic catalyst. This method is used for the synthesis of Pt–Ag bimetallic catalysts. (153) A preprepared Pt catalyst is suspended in deionized water with a second metal source (AgNO3), an ionic strength adjuster (NaNO3), a reducing agent (HCHO), and NaOH or HNO3 to adjust the solution pH. The mixture is stirred for 2 h while the pH is kept at 9 by small additions of NaOH or HNO3. After deposition, the slurry is filtered and washed to remove excess ions, then fully dried. Results indicate that Ag deposition is restricted to the Pt surface and does not readily occur on the catalyst support. (153) For hydrogenation of 3,4-epoxy-1-butene (EpB), the addition of Ag to a monometallic Pt catalyst increases the activity by ∼3 times. The effect of Ag addition is not as pronounced on the catalyst prepared using impregnation, indicating that electroless deposition leads to targeted placement of Ag on the Pt surface. (153)
Colloidal Synthesis
This method has the potential to synthesize supported catalysts with precise control over the size and composition of the bimetallic particles because the metallic colloid is prepared in the presence of a surfactant, which prevents the coalescence of small particles. The metallic colloid is prepared by making a solution of metal precursors, such as K2PtCl4 for Pt, in the presence of a cationic surfactant such as C14TABr. For bimetallic synthesis, precursors of both metals are mixed with the surfactant. The interaction between the precursor metal anions and the surfactant cation in aqueous solution leads to the formation of an organic metal precursor. The reactants are then stirred vigorously and heated to 323 K upon addition of NaBH4, a reducing agent. After reaction, the metallic particles are precipitated and washed in decreasing concentration of ethanol and increasing concentration of water until the particles are filtered and stored. (154) To prepare a supported catalyst, the metallic nanoparticles are added to the desired support in chloroform and sonicated for several hours. The suspension is centrifuged and washed with an acetone–ethanol mixture and then dried in an oven. (155) It is important to point out that the removal of carbon from the surfactants and colloids is critical for the utilization of these materials for catalytic applications. In particular, further studies are needed to identify procedures for carbon removal without changing the structure and surface morphology of the catalysts. Pt–Co catalysts prepared by this method and supported on mesoporous silica have been used for CO2 hydrogenation into CO and CH4 between 473 and 573 K. (155)
Core–Shell Synthesis
Core–shell nanoparticle catalysts consist of a transition metal core covered with a 1–2 monolayer shell of another metal, such as Pt. The transition metal core is prepared by dissolving a metallic chloride precursor in ethylene glycol with polyvinyl alcohol as a surfactant, while holding the solution under nitrogen. The solution is heated and the metal precursor is reduced by dropwise addition of NaBH4. After reaction, the colloid is quenched on ice, centrifuged in an acetone–ethanol mixture, and then dispersed in ethylene glycol. (156) To form the Pt shells, PtCl2 is dissolved in ethylene glycol at room temperature. With a syringe, a small amount of the metallic nanoparticle suspension is added to the PtCl2 solution. The mixture is often heated and held at elevated temperatures before quenching in an ice bath. The supported catalysts are formed by adding an oxide support to the colloidal suspension and drying the slurries in vacuum. Pt@Ru core–shell nanoparticles synthesized with this method were shown to be more active than their constituent pure metal nanoparticles, as well as their nanoalloys synthesized from conventional methods for CO oxidation in hydrogen. (156)
For core–shell systems, it is also desirable to synthesize catalysts with a low-cost transition metal core and Pt or other precious metals at the outermost layer. Mayrhofer et al. have found that, in PtCo@Pt core–shell nanoparticles, Pt segregates to the surface under a CO environment. (157) Another study with a M@Pt (M = Ni, Co) system shows high activity for hydrolysis of ammonia borane (NH3BH3). (158) Fe@Pt NPs supported on carbon have also been used for NH3BH3 oxidation. These catalysts are low cost, highly stable, and much more active than the commercial Pt/C catalysts used for NH3BH3 oxidation. (159)
Reverse Micelle Synthesis
This method uses microemulsions to produce supported metallic nanoparticles with a narrow size distribution. The microemulsion is formed by dissolving a small amount of a metal precursor in an aqueous environment inside of a nonionic surfactant. Upon addition of a reducing agent, such as hydrazine (N2H4), the metal precursors are chemically reduced, leaving nanosized metallic particles. (160) Synthesis of supported catalysts begins by mixing an aqueous solution with the metal precursor and surfactant with an oil-phase solution of the reducing agent. Under stirring, the solution becomes clear, indicating the formation of reverse micelles. A metal oxide support is added as the solution is titrated with acetone to disrupt the micelles, leading to the adsorption of micelles to the support. (161) Reverse micelle synthesis is a useful technique because the size of the metallic nanoparticles can be directly controlled by the ratio of water to surfactant. The amount of reducing agent can also influence the size of particles by increasing the nucleation rate and, thus, decreasing the particle size. (160) Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalysts synthesized using this method exhibit increased activity over their parent metals for 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation due to an enhanced bimetallic effect. (162)
Dendrimer Support Synthesis
Synthesis of metallic nanoparticles with dendrimer supports yields monodisperse particles with a diameter of 1–2 nm. This synthesis method overcomes the weakness of traditional impregnation techniques, which tend to make nanoparticles with wide size distributions. (163) Dendrimer-encapsulated nanoparticles (DENs) are synthesized by extracting metal ions into the interior of dendrimers and then chemically reducing the metal ions to form monodisperse particles that are <3 nm in diameter. (164) DENs are prepared by adding a low concentration of K2PtCl4, or another metallic precursor, to an aqueous solution of hydroxyl-terminated dendrimers. The generation (size) of the dendrimers can be used to directly control the size of the metallic nanoparticles. After adding the metal precursor to the dendrimer solution and stirring for 3 days, the solution is purged with N2 and then chemically reduced with NaBH4 overnight. The metallic nanoparticles are removed by dialysis and then filtered. (165) Once the solution of metallic nanoparticles is obtained, the particles can be deposited on a support by impregnation. Catalysts synthesized with dendrimer supports have been tested in several catalytic applications including hydrogenation (164) and CO oxidation. (163)
Other Synthesis Methods
Several other synthesis techniques have been employed to synthesize supported catalysts. Microwave-assisted polyol reduction (MAPR) allows very rapid uniform heating of the metal precursors to a high temperature within a few seconds. This shortens the crystallization period of the metal nanoparticles, leading to more homogeneous nucleation when compared to traditional synthesis methods. In MAPR synthesis, the support is immersed in an aqueous metal precursor solution and then dried in vacuum. (166) The MAPR method can be applied to bimetallic catalysts by adding a second metal precursor to the aqueous solution. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts have been successfully synthesized using the MAPR method with high activity and selectivity for cinnamaldehyde hydrogenation, with the MAPR catalysts outperforming catalysts synthesized by the conventional impregnation method. (166)
Another interesting approach is to directly deposit metal on an oxide support on the reactor wall. The reactor consists of an Fe–Cr–Al cylinder placed in a stainless steel tube, which is heated to high temperatures to produce a γ-Al2O3 film on the surface of the cylinder. (167) To prepare the supported catalyst, the Fe–Cr–Al alloy cylinder is dipped into a slurry of metallic precursors until the desired loading is reached, followed by drying and calcining the alloy cylinder. (167) The advantage of this synthesis process is that the catalyst is formed directly on the walls of the reactor, allowing for high loading and potentially uniform catalyst deposition. This approach has been used for preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen-rich gas streams, leading to a reduction of CO in the feed from 1% to <10 ppm. (167)
Finally, laser vaporization has been used to synthesize monometallic and bimetallic catalysts of approximately the same size, morphology, and composition. In the laser-vaporization technique, a low-energy Nd:YAG pulsed laser vaporizes a metal of interest from a rod to create a plasma. Crystal growth begins by introducing a continuous flow of He or Ar into the evaporation chamber, leading to the deposition of metal clusters onto the catalyst support. These clusters are highly uniform in size and composition as they are fully formed before they are deposited onto the support. (168) Although the quantity of the catalysts produced in this method is relatively small, these samples offer the opportunity for obtaining fundamental correlations between catalytic properties and the size, shape, and composition of bimetallic catalysts. Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 catalysts prepared by laser vaporization show similar trends as catalysts prepared by traditional methods for toluene hydrogenation. (168)
2.2.2 Common Characterization Techniques for Bimetallic Catalysts
CO and H2 Chemisorption
One of the most important parameters of bimetallic catalysts is the number of active metal sites, which is typically obtained using CO chemisorption. The CO uptake can be measured using many specialized instruments, but as an example, an AMI-200ip (Altamira Instruments) is a viable option. Measurements are performed by loading a known quantity of calcined catalyst into a quartz tube, which is then inserted into the instrument. Catalysts are reduced with a desired H2-containing gas mixture at a specified temperature and then are cooled to room temperature. After cooling, CO is pulsed over the catalyst, and the amount of effluent CO is measured using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). For proper comparison of catalytic activity among different catalysts, the reaction rates must be normalized by the values of CO uptake on each catalyst. CO chemisorption can also be used to estimate metal dispersion by assuming the stoichiometry of M/CO = 1:1 (M = Pt, Ni, Pd, etc.), although the 1:1 ratio is clearly an oversimplification. The dissociative adsorption of H2 is also used to determine the number of active metal sites. However, care must be taken because hydrogen starts to desorb from some bimetallic surfaces at room temperature.
Elemental Analysis
Two techniques are commonly used to quantify the concentrations of elements in supported bimetallic catalysts. Atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) is a quantitative technique used to measure the absorption of light by free atoms in the gaseous state. In a typical AAS experiment, an analyte solution is prepared by dissolving a supported catalyst, which is then made into an aerosol with a nebulizer and atomized using an air–acetylene flame. The concentration of metallic ions in the solution is obtained after normalizing the AAS intensity with reference compounds. (169) Another technique, inductively coupled plasma atomic/optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES/OES), is also used to quantify the concentration of trace metals within a bimetallic catalyst. (170) In principle, ICP-AES/OES should have a higher detection limit than AAS for most metals, although it is a more sophisticated and expensive instrument than AAS.
Temperature-Programmed Reduction and Oxidation
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) is used to measure the temperatures at which metals and/or supports are reduced in a catalyst. After calcination, a catalyst is placed in a reactor under flowing H2 and heated at a constant ramp rate. As the temperature increases, the catalyst is reduced by the H2 and oxygen is removed from the catalyst in the form of water. With a TCD connected to the effluent stream, the change in concentration of water can be measured to determine the reduction temperature(s). The TPR measurements provide information on the optimal reduction temperature for a catalyst, as well as whether the presence of Pt reduces the reduction temperature of bimetallic catalysts. Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) is similar in theory to TPR, but it is used to measure the amount of coke deposited on the surface of a catalyst. In TPO measurements, a spent catalyst is placed in a reactor under flowing O2 and heated at a constant rate. As the temperature increases, the coke on the surface of the catalyst is oxidized by O2 and the carbon is removed from the catalyst in the form of CO2. Using a TCD to monitor the composition of the effluent stream, the area of the CO2 intensity versus temperature curve can be measured to determine the amount of surface carbon. This technique can also be used to determine the strength of interaction between the surface carbon and the supported catalyst because a higher oxidation temperature indicates the coke is more difficult to remove. A related technique, thermogravimetric analysis/differential thermal analysis (TGA/DTA), is also used sometimes to determine the amount of surface carbon through precise weight measurements during TPO of spent catalysts. (171, 172)
Temperature-Programmed Desorption
Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) is used to determine the binding energy of adsorbates on catalysts. In TPD experiments a catalyst is loaded into a reactor fitted with a mass spectrometer. The catalyst can be pretreated under reduction conditions or used in the calcined form. After pretreatment, the catalyst is treated with an adsorbate, which is usually a reactant of interest. The excess adsorbate that is not strongly bound to the catalyst is removed by flowing He. The catalyst is heated linearly at a constant rate, (139) and the effluent products are monitored using a mass spectrometer. By plotting the evolution of the adorbate and its derivatives versus temperature, information can be inferred regarding reaction sites and binding energies of the adsorbate.
Transmission Electron Microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) are two primary forms of electron microscopy to characterize the morphology of catalysts. TEM uses transmission of a high-energy electron beam (∼200 keV) through a thin sample to produce an image, whereas SEM rasters a high-energy electron beam (1–40 keV) across the surface of a sample. In TEM, two primary imaging modes are used to investigate particle size and morphology of catalysts. Imaging can be performed in either bright field (BF) or dark field (DF) modes by selecting the direct beam (transmitted through the sample) or diffracted beam (diffracted off of the sample), respectively. BF imaging is used mainly to view catalyst morphology because the contrast between the metal and the support is too low to accurately quantify metallic particle sizes on supported catalysts. DF imaging has much more utility for viewing high atomic number (Z) transition metals supported on low-Z metal oxides. When combined with scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM), catalysts can be imaged with very high Z-contrast in high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) imaging. In HAADF imaging, the STEM probe is a focused beam that is rastered across an area of the sample. As the atomic number of the element increases, the scattering angle of the electrons also increases. Therefore, HAADF imaging easily distinguishes between different elements by Z-contrast to create a high-contrast image. (173) Unlike TEM, electrons in SEM are not transmitted through the sample. The most common mode of image capture in SEM is by secondary electrons. An image constructed with secondary electrons contains rich topographic information and has a 3D appearance. SEM is particularly useful for characterizing the morphology and topography of catalyst surfaces. Because the morphology of the catalysts often changes under reaction conditions, further development and applications of environmental TEM and SEM should provide additional means for catalyst characterization.
Recently, there have been advances to correct intrinsic imperfections in the lenses of electron microscopes to improve resolution at very high magnification. These microscopes contain additional lenses to correct for spherical and chromatic aberrations. Spherical aberration corrected TEM (CS-TEM) is capable of distinguishing features up to ∼0.1 nm for the viewing of individual metal atoms. This technique has been used recently to correlate strain effects in Pt–Fe@Pt nanoparticles to activity in the oxygen reduction reaction. (174) In addition to increasing the resolution of TEM, advances have been made in performing TEM under in situ conditions, referred to as environmental TEM (E-TEM). E-TEM has been used to study the behavior of Cu/CeO2 catalysts under reduction and oxidation conditions for several reactions including the water gas shift reaction, methanol synthesis, and methanol reforming. (175)
The chemical composition of a catalyst can be measured using energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) in both TEM and SEM. EDS relies on the principle of X-ray fluorescence to collect compositional data in specific areas of the sample. A fluorescent X-ray is created from atoms that are ionized by the incident electron beam. (176) The fluorescent X-ray has a characteristic energy that is equal to the difference of energy of the outer-shell and inner-shell electrons for a specific element. The peak intensities in EDS measurements can be used to estimate the elemental compositions of the sampled area after proper normalization.
Infrared Spectroscopy
Infrared (IR) spectroscopy is a very useful technique to determine the bonding configuration of reaction intermediates adsorbed on catalysts, as well as to measure the concentrations of reactants and products in the gas or aqueous phase. Several types of IR spectroscopy are used in catalytic research. The most common one is Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, (177, 178) which is used to measure the transmission of infrared radiation through a catalyst pellet or reaction environment. The IR cell is a gas-phase batch reactor that allows the heating and in situ reduction of the catalyst pellet. The rate constant and product distribution can be obtained by measuring gas-phase FTIR as a function of reaction time. In addition, FTIR measurements are often useful in determining the surface termination of bimetallic particles by measuring the vibrational frequencies of adsorbed carbon monoxide (CO). Because the frequencies of adsorbed CO are distinct for different transition metals, a comparison of FTIR spectra between the bimetallic and monometallic catalysts reveals which metals occupy the topmost surfaces of the bimetallic particles. As will be demonstrated later, the surface termination of bimetallic catalysts plays a critical role in the catalytic performance. Two other types of IR spectroscopy are also used in catalyst characterization. Attenuated total reflectance infrared (ATR-IR) measures the attenuation of total internal reflection of the reflected light (179) and is better suited for aqueous-phase environments. Diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) measures the reflection of the IR light from the catalyst, making it more surface-sensitive than transmission FTIR. In addition, a related optical technique, ultraviolet–visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (UV–vis DRS), is a surface-sensitive spectroscopy that is identical in theory to DRIFTS but uses wavelengths of light in the UV–vis range instead of in the IR range. The higher-energy radiation allows UV–vis DRS to probe the band gap of metals to obtain information regarding the oxidation state. (180)
X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy
X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) is a synchrotron-based technique used to characterize the local atomic and electronic structures (181, 182) of a catalyst under in situ conditions relevant to catalytic reactions. XAS measurements are performed by using a monochromatic X-ray beam and collecting the absorption coefficient, μ, as a function of X-ray energy. When the incident energy (hυ) approaches the binding energy Eo of a core level electron, a sharp jump in μ is observed, known as the absorption edge. The region of the scan that begins before the absorption edge and ranges to 50–100 eV above the edge is known as the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) region. (183, 184) The region beginning at 50–100 eV above the edge (after the XANES region) and extending up to 1000 eV past the edge is known as the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) region. (183) A critical feature in the XANES region is the “white line”, caused by a rapid increase in absorption. This feature is present in L-edges, due to the excitation of an electron from the p-orbitals into the higher energy, unoccupied d-states. (185) The main utility of the white line is to characterize the oxidation state of a metal during and after H2 treatment, as well as during catalytic reactions. For example, a reduction in the white line intensity after treatment in H2 indicates that the metal of interest is being reduced. With further analysis of the XANES region, information regarding coordination number can also be calculated. (181, 182)
The EXAFS region contains fine-structure information regarding the local coordination environment. The critical difference between the EXAFS and XANES regions is that in the EXAFS region the ejected photoelectron has sufficient energy to scatter from each of the surrounding atoms and then backscatter to the absorbing atom. (181) Because the ejected photoelectron has wave-particle duality, the outgoing and backscattered electrons can constructively or destructively interfere with each other, making it possible to derive information about the local coordination environment of the catalyst particle. For example, the intensity of the oscillations increases with increasing coordination number, while the frequency of oscillations is inversely dependent on interatomic distances. (182) Quantitative structural information can be obtained after data reduction and mathematical analysis of the EXAFS function, as described elsewhere. (183, 186, 187) Quantitative analysis of EXAFS results are obtained by fitting the reduced data to phases and backscattering amplitudes constructed either from reference compounds or calculations using simulation software such as FEFF. (187-189)
Additional information can be obtained by combining XAS with other techniques for in situ, time-resolved measurements. For example, combined XAS and XRD measurements are applied for investigations of catalysts under reaction conditions. (190) Several authors have further enhanced the combined measurements by adding complementary electronic and vibrational spectroscopy techniques, including ultraviolet-visible (UV–vis), infrared, and Raman, to the well-established XAS–XRD combination. (191, 192) Weckhuysen and others have combined the small- and wide-angle scattering (SAXS and WAXS) techniques with quick-scanning XAS to study in situ processes. (193) More details about some of these advances can be found in a recent review by Bentrup. (194)
2.2.3 Example: Characterization of Supported Pt–Ni Bimetallic Catalysts
Supported Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts have been synthesized using various synthesis methods and characterized with many of the techniques described previously. For example, Figure 5 shows the proposed bimetallic particle in Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 after in situ reduction in H2. (143) The particle size was determined from a combination of TEM and CO chemisorption analysis. The Pt-termination of the catalyst particle was derived by comparing the vibrational frequencies of adsorbed CO on Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 and the corresponding monometallic catalysts. The presence of fully reduced, metallic Pt and Ni was confirmed following the reduction of white line intensities in XANES during H2 reduction. The intimate contact between Pt and Ni atoms was verified by the detection of the Pt–Ni nearest neighbor in the EXAFS measurements. Overall, the Pt-terminated bimetallic particle in Figure 5 is similar to the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure in Figure 3, responsible for the strong correlation between model surfaces and supported catalysts for hydrogenation reactions, as discussed later.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Proposed structure of a supported Pt–Ni bimetallic particle derived from TEM, FTIR, and EXAFS characterization.
3 Stability of Pt-Based Bimetallic Surfaces with Different Adsorbates
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1 DFT Calculations of Thermodynamic Stability
One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties. For example, as shown earlier in Figure 3, the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates. Several other investigations of Pt–3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces.
Ruban et al. (198) have utilized DFT to calculate the segregation energy (Eseg) for transition metal alloys, which is the thermodynamic driving potential to move the subsurface admetal from the bulk to the surface of the host metal in vacuum. Alden et al. (199) have shown that the surface segregation energy in transition metal alloy depends strongly on the crystal structure and is essentially given by the difference in the surface energies of the pure alloy components. Ruban et al. (198) have performed DFT calculations of the values of Eseg for admetal atoms (M) on many host substrates (H), utilizing the linear-muffin–tin-orbitals coherent potential approximation. If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the M–H–H surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the H–M–H subsurface monolayer structure. Christensen et al. (43) have also utilized DFT to investigate surface alloy phases and their stability based on surface phase diagrams constructed from the surface energy as a function of the surface composition.
Greeley and Mavrikakis (12) performed segregation energy calculations by examining the effects of adsorbates on the stability of the surface and subsurface structures. It was found that the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures. Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals.
Besides hydrogen, it is also important to study the influence of adsorbates on surface segregation using a strong adsorbate, such as oxygen. Figure 6 shows the total energy difference, ΔEseg, defined as the difference between the formation energy of the subsurface and surface structures, as a function of the surface d-band center in the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) structure. The values of ΔEseg are positive for all systems under vacuum, predicting that the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically more stable than the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface in vacuum. For comparison, the ΔEseg values are also included in Figure 6 with 0.5 ML atomic hydrogen and oxygen. (33) The DFT results predict that the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface. Additional atomic adsorbates are studied by Menning and Chen (200) to compare how the thermodynamic potential for segregation varies with adsorbate binding strength. An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration. In contrast, an adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum. (200)
Figure 6
Figure 6. DFT calculations of thermodynamic stability of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces in vacuum and with 0.5 ML of atomic hydrogen and oxygen. Positive ΔEseg values indicate that the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structures are thermodynamically stable. (33, 200)
The results in Figure 6 indicate that the presence of atomic oxygen makes the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface structure more thermodynamically stable than Pt–3d–Pt(111). Menning and Chen have extended DFT calculations to the Pt(100) substrate to explore the effect of crystal structure on segregation. Although the values of the d-band center and ΔEseg are different for 3d metals on Pt(111) and Pt(100), the general trend in the relative stability of the surface and subsurface structures remains the same. (33) The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena. (201) Table 2 provides a list of DFT calculations and experimental studies of surface segregation of various bimetallic surfaces with several types of atomic and molecular adsorbates.
Table 2. List of Studies of Surface Segregation with Different Adsorbates
adsorbate surface techniques
O 3d/Pt(111), 3d/Pt(100) DFT (33)
O2 3d/Pt(111), 3d/Pt(100) AES (33)
H, O, C, N, S, and Se 3d/Pt(111) DFT (200)
vacuum, H, O 3d/Pt(111), 3d/Pt(100) DFT (202)
O2 3d/Pt HREELS, (202) AES (202)
vacuum Ni/Pt(111) MD, (203) DFT, (203) AES (203)
vacuum Re3Pt polycrystalline DFT, (204) XPS, (204) UPS (204)
O Pt3Ti(111) DFT, (205) MC (205)
O, OH Pt2IrCo(111), Pt2IrCr(111) DFT (206)
H2, O2 Fe/Pt(111) STM, (207) XPS (207)
CO, O2 Fe/Pt(111) DFT, (208) STM, (208) XPS, (208) HREELS (208)
H2, O2 Pt–Ni nanoparticles XPS, (209) HRTEM (209)
H2, O2 Pt–Cu nanoparticles XPS (209)
H2, O2 Pt–Co nanoparticles XPS (209)
CO Cu/Pt, Ag/Pt DFT, (210) TPD, (210) XPS, (210) ISS, (210) LEED, (210) PM-IRAS (210)
O Pt3M (M═Fe, Co, Ni) DFT (211, 212)
vacuum Pt3M (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) DFT (213)
vacuum Co/Pt(111), Au/Pt(111) DFT (214)
O Pt/Ir(core) and Pt3Ir(211) DFT (201)
O Pt/Co(core) and Pt3Co(211) DFT (201)
O Pt/Fe(001) DFT (215)
H Ti/Pt(111) DFT (216)
vacuum Pt/Pd(111), Pt/Pd(100), Pt/Pd(110) MC (217)
H2, O2 Pt–Ni nanoparticles XPS, (218) STM, (218) XRD, (218) XANES (218)
vacuum Pt3Ni(111)/M (M = V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir) DFT (219)
H2, O2 Pt/3d DFT (220)
OOH, OH and O Pt/Pd DFT (221)
vacuum PtRu/Ru(0001) STM, (222) AES (222)
CO, D2 PtRu/Ru(0001) TPD, (223) IR (223)
O Pt2Mo DFT, (224)
CO Pt–Au/TiO2(110) STM, (225) LEIS, (225)TPD (225)
3.2 Experimental Verification of Surface Segregation
DFT results predict that the surface 3d–Pt–Pt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen. Parallel experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation. To verify the oxygen-induced segregation, high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) has been utilized to monitor the segregation of Ni and Co in the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface configurations when exposed to oxygen. (64) The onset of the characteristic ν(Ni–O) and ν(Co–O) vibrational modes confirms the segregation of subsurface Ni and Co after exposing the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) configuration to oxygen at different temperatures. In addition, AES measurements were performed to quantify the segregation kinetics. The AES intensity ratios of Co/Pt or Ni/Pt were used to monitor the interchange between the subsurface and surface structures after exposure to oxygen. Figure 7a shows that the normalized AES Ni/Pt ratio increases after exposing subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) to increasing amounts of oxygen at various temperatures. The increase in the Ni/Pt AES ratio with higher oxygen exposures confirmed the oxygen-induced segregation of subsurface Ni atoms. Using an Arrhenius equation to analyze the data, such as that shown in Figure 7b, the activation barrier for the oxygen-induced segregation of Co and Ni is estimated to be 7 ± 1 and 15 ± 2 kcal/mol, respectively. This follows the trend predicted by DFT (Figure 6), where Ni is predicted to have the smaller driving potential for segregation compared to Co and should correspondingly have a higher activation barrier.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Normalized Ni/Pt Auger ratio as a function of oxygen exposure at various temperatures and (b) Arrhenius analysis of the activation barrier from Pt–Ni–Pt(111) to Ni–Pt–Pt(111) in oxygen environment. (64)
To capture the effect of the crystal facet on segregation, oxygen-induced segregation of subsurface Co and Ni has also been studied on polycrystalline Pt foil composed of nearly equal amounts of the two main crystal facets for fcc, (111) and (100). (33) Using a similar Arrhenius analysis procedure, an activation barrier is estimated to be 27 ± 1 kcal/mol for the segregation of subsurface Ni from the Pt(100) facet of the Pt foil, higher than the value of 15 ± 2 kcal/mol from Pt(111). This trend is consistent with the DFT prediction that the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt configuration should be more stable on the (100) crystal facet than the (111) facet. (33)
Experiments such as those shown in Figure 7 are extremely time-consuming to perform. Through the use of combined theory and experiments, an estimation for the activation barriers of other Pt–3d–Pt systems can be achieved using a Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi (BEP) relationship. (33) The constants in the BEP relationship have been derived from the activation barriers for the Pt–Ni–Pt(111), Pt–Ni–Pt(100), and Pt–Co–Pt(111) surfaces. The results from this prediction are shown in Figure 8, where the left axis is the segregation energy and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation. All of the Pt–3d–Pt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt–3d–Pt(111) configuration. Among Pt–3d bimetallic surfaces, the Pt–Ni–Pt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets. At the other extreme, the Pt–Ti–Pt surface is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Left axis shows the DFT-predicted potential energy difference for segregation of Pt–3d systems with 0.5 ML O, and the right axis shows activation barriers derived using a Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi relationship. (33)
In addition to segregation experiments performed under UHV conditions, the segregation of subsurface Co and Ni was also verified under ambient pressure using XANES (226) under in situ conditions. Using a polycrystalline Pt foil as the substrate, the Co and Ni atoms were found to undergo inward diffusion upon exposure to H2 and surface segregation after exposure to O2. These experimental observations further confirm the DFT prediction (Figure 6) that the Pt-terminated subsurface structure is stable with adsorbed hydrogen while the 3d-terminated surface structure is preferred with adsorbed oxygen.
Furthermore, such reversible behavior is extended to bimetallic nanoparticles. Mu et al. (209) have observed the reversible structural changes at the surfaces of supported Pt–Ni nanoparticles treated in alternating O2 and H2 atmospheres. Figure 9 shows the XPS Ni/Pt intensity ratio, which oscillates with the oxidation–reduction cycles. The XPS results indicate that the Pt–Ni nanoparticles surface is NiO-rich in oxidizing gases and Pt-terminated in reducing gases, consistent with the DFT predictions in Figure 6. Overall, the strong correlation between DFT prediction and experimental measurements, on both model surfaces and nanoparticles, provides conclusive evidence that the bimetallic structures change under different reaction environments. Such structural changes in turn modify the catalytic performance of bimetallic catalysts for different types of reactions, such as hydrogenation and oxidation reactions, as discussed in the next section.
Figure 9
Figure 9. (a) Dependence of the ratio of XPS Ni2p intensity to XPS Pt 4f intensity and (b) reversible change in surface structure of Pt–Ni transition metal nanoparticles with the oxidation and reduction cycles. (209) Reproduced with permission from ref 209. Copyright 2009 Elsevier.
4 Utilization of Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts in Catalytic Reactions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this section we divide the catalytic reactions into several categories: hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, reforming, and oxidation reactions. Table 3 summarizes selected UHV studies of the adsorption and reaction of different molecules on model bimetallic surfaces. Tables summarizing reactor studies over supported bimetallic catalysts based on the types of reactions are provided in the corresponding subsections. The main focus of the review is to identify general trends on how bimetallic catalysts enhance the activity and selectivity for each type of reaction. Special attention is paid to correlate model surfaces with supported catalysts whenever possible.
Table 3. Summary of Selected Surface Science Studies of the Adsorption and Reaction of Molecules on Various Pt-Based Bimetallic Surfaces
surface molecule technique surface molecule technique
hydrogenation dehydrogenation
Co/Pt(111) acrolein TPD (17) Sn/Pt(111) 1-hexene TPD (249)
Ni/Pt(111) acrolein TPD (17) Sn/Pt(111) n-hexane TPD (249)
Fe/Pt(111) aldehydes DFT (227) Sn/Pt(111) 1,5-hexadiene TPD (249)
Ni/Pt(111) benzene TPD (228) Sn/Pt(111) cyclopentene HREELS, (250) TPD, (250) DFT, (250) LEED (250)
Ni/Pt(111) 1-butene TPD (228) Sn/Pt(111) 1,3-cyclohexadiene DFT (251)
Pt80Fe20(111) crotonaldehyde GC (229) Ni/Pt(111) ammonia DFT, (14, 252) TPD (14, 252)
Sn/Pt(111) crotonaldehyde GC (230) metal/Pt(111) ammonia DFT, (253) TPD (253)
Sn/Pt(111) cyclohexanone GC (115) Au/polycrystalline Pt cyclohexene TPD (254)
Pt/Ni(111) cyclohexene TPD, (53, 54) HREELS (53) reforming    
Co/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD (60) Pt/Cu(100) formic acid TPD (41)
Cu/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD (231) Sn/Pt(111) ethanol TPD (255)
Fe/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD (231) Ni/Pt(111) ethanol DFT, (256-258) TPD, (256, 258, 259) HREELS (257)
Ni/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD, (54, 89, 232) HREELS, (15, 89) NEXAFS (15) transition metal/Pt(111) ethanol DFT, (260) TPD (260)
Ni/Pt(111) deuterium TPD (89) Ni/polycrystalline Pt ethanol DFT, (261) TPD, (261) HREELS (261)
Pt/Ni(100) ethylene TPD, (52) XPS, (52) LEED (52) Ni/Pt(111) ethylene glycol DFT, (257, 258) TPD, (256, 258, 259) HREELS (256, 257)
Pt/Ni(110) ethylene TPD (52) transition metal/Pt(111) ethylene glycol DFT, (260) TPD (260)
Pt/Ni(111) ethylene TPD (54) Ni/polycrystalline Pt ethylene glycol TPD, (262) HREELS (262)
Co/Pt(111) ethylene TPD (60) Ni/Pt(111) glycerol TPD (256, 259)
Fe/Pt(111) ethylene DFT (233) Ni/Pt(111) glycolaldehyde DFT, (23) TPD, (23) HREELS (23)
Ni/Pt(111) ethylene TPD, (54, 89, 232) HREELS (54, 89) Pt/Ni(111) methanol XPS (263)
metal/Pt(111) ethylene DFT (92) Co/Pt(111) methanol DFT, (264)HREELS (264)
Pt/W(110) ethylene TPD, (127) HREELS (127) Au/Pt(111) methanol DFT (265)
Sn/Pt(111) ethylene TPD (110, 234) Ni/Pt(111) methanol DFT, (256, 264) TPD, (256, 262) HREELS (262, 264)
Fe/Pt(111) formaldehyde DFT (233) Ni/polycrystalline Pt methanol TPD, (262) HREELS (262)
Ni/Pt(111) 1-hexene TPD (228) Pt/W(110) methanol DFT, (266) TPD, (266) HREELS (266)
Sn/Pt(111) methylacetylene TPD (235) Au/Pt(111) NO DFT (265)
Sn/Pt(111) 1,3-butadiene DFT, (236) TPD (236) Pt/Au(100) NO KMCS (267)
Sn/Pt(111) 1,3-butadiene DFT (237) Sn/Pt(111) cyclohexanone TPD, (268) HREELS, (268) AES, (268) LEED, (268) DFT (268)
metal/Pt(111) 1,3-butadiene DFT (238) Sn/Pt(111) ethylene oxide TPD, (269) HREELS, (269) UPS, (269) DFT (269)
metal/Pt(111) cyclohexene DFT, (27) TPD (27) oxidation    
Ni/polycrystalline Pt cyclohexene DFT, (239) TPD, (239) HREELS (239) Pt/Ru(0001) CO STM, (124) TPD/TPR (124)
Ni/Pt(111) acrolein TPD, (240) HREELS (240) Pt/Ru(111) CO DFT (270)
metal/Pt(111) acrolein DFT, (241, 242) TPD, (241) HREELS (241) Pt3Ni(111) CO DFT (271)
metal/Pt(111) 1,4-cyclohexadiene DFT (243) Pt2Ni2(111) CO DFT (271)
Ni/Pt(111) 1,3-cyclohexadiene DFT (244) PtNi3(111) CO DFT (271)
Ni/Pt(111) propanal DFT, (245) TPD (245) Fe/Pt(111) CO DFT, (208) TEM, (208) UPS, (208) HREELS, (208) XPS (208)
Co/Pt(111) acetaldehyde DFT (246) FeO1–x/Pt(111) CO TEM, (272) DFT, (272) XPS, (272) UPS (272)
Co/Pt(111) acetone DFT (246) NiO1–x/Pt(111) CO TEM, (273) DFT, (273) XPS, (273) UPS (273)
metal/Pt(111) acetone DFT (247) Pt/Ru(0001) methanol FTIRAS, (274) TPD (274)
dehydrogenation hydrodesulfurization    
metal/Pt(111) ethyl DFT (92) Ni/Pt(111) thiophene TPD (88)
metal/Pt(111) vinyl DFT (92) sulfidation    
Sn/Pt(111) methylacetylene TPD (235) Cu/Pt(111) S2 XPS, (275) XAES, (275) TDS (275)
Sn/Pt(111) ethylene TPD (248) Sn/Pt(111) S2 TDS, (116) PES (116)
Sn/Pt(111) propylene TPD (248) Zn/Pt(111) S2 XPS, (275) XAES, (275) TDS (275)
Sn/Pt(111) isobutylene TPD (248)      
4.1 Hydrogenation Reactions
Catalytic hydrogenations are among the most commonly practiced catalytic processes, ranging from common steps in organic synthesis to batch processes in pharmaceutical production, to stabilization of edible oils, and to petroleum upgrading processes. Because hydrogenation reactions are typically exothermic, it is advantageous to carry out these reactions at low temperatures. In the current section we will first use the hydrogenation of cyclohexene to demonstrate the feasibility of increasing the low-temperature hydrogenation activity by reducing the binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, which can be achieved by designing bimetallic surfaces with specific surface structures. We will then discuss hydrogenation reactions of C═C, C═O, and N═O bonds to further illustrate the advantages of bimetallic catalysts in terms of both hydrogenation activity and selectivity. Hydrogenation studies under UHV conditions are summarized in Table 3; selected reactor studies of hydrogenation reactions over supported bimetallic catalysts are listed in Table 4
Table 4. Summary of Selected Hydrogenation Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
bimetallic catalyst support synthesis method reactants reactor temperature characterization techniques
Pt–Ni γ-Al2O3 impregnation 1,3-cyclo-hexadiene, 1,3-butadiene, 1,4-cyclo-hexadiene, benzene batch 308 K XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption, XRD, FTIR
Pt–Co α-Al2O3
Pt–Cu (143, 238, 243, 244, 247, 276) ZrO2 flow
Pt–Co (277) AC impregnation benzene flow 343 K XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption, TPR
SiO2
γ-Al2O3
TiO2
Pt–Ni (278) SiO2 impregnation toluene flow 353–573 K N2 adsorption, ICP, TPR, XRD, TOF-SIMS
SiO2–TiO2
mixed oxides
Pt–Co (279, 280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation cyclohexene batch 303 K XAS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
flow 273 K
Pt–Co (279, 280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation benzene batch 303 K XAS, FTIR, TPR, CO chemisorption, H2 chemisorption
flow 343 K
Pt–Ni (280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation cyclohexene batch 303 K FTIR,TPR, H2 chemisorption
flow 273 K
Pt–Ni (280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation benzene batch 373 K FTIR, TPR, H2 chemisorption
flow 343 K
Pt–Pd (138) Mg–Al oxides impregnation naphthalene flow 533–613 K XRD, CO FTIR, SEM
Pt–Pd (168) γ-Al2O3 laser vaporization toluene flow 333–500 K TEM, EDS
Pt–Cu SiO2 organic clusters, impregnation hexane flow 673 K DRIFTS, TEM, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Au (147)
Pt–Pd (139) γ-Al2O3 impregnation tetralin flow 573 K N2 adsorption, CO chemisorption, XPS, TPD, TPO, XAS
naphthalene
phenanthrene
Pt–Au (281) SiO2 deposition cinnamaldehyde batch 423 K ICP-AES, TEM, H2-TPD
Pt–Rh (282) AC colloid butyronitrile batch (liq. phase) 313 K XAS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Zn (283) TiO2 impregnation toluene flow 333 K FTIR, XPS, XRD, CO chemisorption, H2 chemisorption
crotonaldehyde
Pt–Ge (152) TiO2 reductive deposition precipitation citral batch (liq. phase) 343 K TPR
Pt–Ni (247) SiO2 impregnation acetone batch 308 K XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption, FTIR
γ-Al2O3
TiOx
Pt–Sn (150) SiO2 reductive deposition precipitation crotonaldehyde flow (liq. phase) 333–353 K TPR
cinnamaldehyde 313–353 K
Pt–Sn CNF reductive deposition precipitation, impregnation cinnamaldehyde batch 313 K ICP-OES, EDS, TEM, XAS, H2 chemisorption, N2 adsorption
Pt–Ga (140) flow
Pt–Sn (284) MgO impregnation crotonaldehyde flow 333 K XRD, TEM, XPS
Pt–Sn (285) C impregnation citral flow (liq. phase) 473 K N2 adsorption, XRD, TEM, TPR, CO chemisorption
773 K
Pt–Fe (286) SiO2 impregnation cyclohexane flow (liq. phase) 543 K FTIR, TEM, XAS, H2 chemisorption
citral 343 K
Pt–Fe (287) SiO2 impregnation acetic acid flow 463–513 K DRIFTS, H2 chemisorption
Pt–Fe (288) γ-Al2O3 organic clusters 1,3-butadiene flow 298 K H2 adsorption, TEM, EDS, TPR
Pt–Pd (289) none colloid acrolein batch 293–473 K XPS, TEM, EDS
Pt–Re (290) TiO2 impregnation N-methyl-pyrrolidin-2-one flow 393 K N2 adsorption, XRD, ICP-OES, TPR
Pt–Ni (162) γ-Al2O3 reverse micelle 1,3-butadiene batch 308 K TEM, AAS, XAS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (291) NaY zeolite impregnation, reductive deposition precipitation furfural flow 423 K FTIR, ICP, XRD, XPS, TPD, N2 adsorption
Pt–Sn (142) SiO2 organic clusters furfural flow (liq. phase) 363 K TPR, TEM, N2 adsorption, CO chemisorption
393 K
Pt–Ni (292, 293) γ-Al2O3 impregnation maleic anhydride flow 313–423 K XRD, TPR
Pt–Co (155) MCF-17 colloid, impregnation CO2 flow 473–573 K TEM, XPS, XAS
Pt–Co (294, 295) NaY γ-Al2O3 impregnation CO flow 473–533 K XAS, TPR, XPS, XRD
Pt–Mo (296) γ-Al2O3 impregnation CO flow 573 K XAS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (297) TiO2 impregnation citral flow (liq. phase) 343 K EDS, XRD, TEM, N2 adsorption
Pt–Co (298) C colloid, impregnation unsaturated aldehydes N/A N/A XRD, TEM, EDS, ICP, ATR-IR, XPS
Pt–Zn (141) SiO2 AC impregnation crotonaldehyde flow 353 K XPS, AES, TPR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (299) SiO2 α-Al2O3 impregnation crotonaldehyde batch (liq. phase) 313 K H2 chemisorption, CO chemisorption, TEM, TPR
Pt–Mn CNT microwave-assisted polyol reduction cinnamaldehyde flow (liq. phase) 333 K ICP, XRD, XPS, TEM
Pt–Fe
Pt–Cu
Pt–Ni
Pt–Zn
Pt–Sn
Pt–Co (166)
Pt–Ru (300) CNT colloid, impregnation cinnamaldehyde batch (liq. phase) 343 K FTIR, TEM,
Pt–Co SiO2 impregnation cinnamaldehyde batch (liq. phase) 353 K TPR, TEM, XAS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Cu (301)
4.1.1 C═C Hydrogenation
4.1.1.1 Example: Cyclohexene Hydrogenation on Pt–3d Catalysts
Cyclohexene is used as a probe molecule to study hydrogenation because cyclic hydrocarbons are important reaction intermediates in many refinery and petrochemical processes, in addition to serving as building blocks for many chemicals produced in the chemical industry. Furthermore, cyclohexene has several competitive reaction pathways, including decomposition, dehydrogenation, disproportionation (self-hydrogenation), and hydrogenation. Comparative studies of these reaction pathways provide an opportunity to determine how the formation of bimetallic bonds affects the hydrogenation activity and selectivity.
DFT and UHV Studies on Single-Crystal 3d/Pt(111) Surfaces
To facilitate the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene, one hypothesis is that an effective catalyst should bond relatively weakly to atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. Hammer and Nørskov (302) have shown that the binding strength of molecules on transition metals is dependent on the electronic structure of the surface, by using the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level to describe the surface electronic property. Chen et al. (10) have summarized experimental and theoretical studies that identify a nearly linear relationship between the binding energies and the surface d-band center for many adsorbates on a wide range of bimetallic surfaces.
DFT calculations were performed to estimate the values of hydrogen-binding energy (HBE) on several 3d–Pt–Pt(111) and Pt–3d–Pt(111) surfaces. As shown in Figure 10a, (27) HBE is related to the position of the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level, in agreement with the trend observed in previous studies for other surfaces. (10) In general, the addition of a 3d metal surface layer on Pt(111) moves the d-band center closer to the Fermi level compared to that of the bulk 3d metals. This is primarily due to the tensile strain induced by the Pt lattice because the ligand effect is weakest between late transition metal overlayers and the Pt(111) substrate. (16) Conversely, the presence of subsurface 3d metals shifts the surface d-band center of Pt away from the Fermi level as compared to that of Pt(111), mainly due to the electronic interaction of Pt and the subsurface 3d atoms. (16) The comparison in Figure 10a demonstrates that HBE typically follows the trend of 3d–Pt–Pt(111) > Pt(111) > Pt–3d–Pt(111). In addition, the nearly linear correlation between HBE and the surface d-band center should enable one to predict HBE on other bimetallic catalysts based on the extensive database of d-band center values for many bimetallic surfaces.
Figure 10
Figure 10. DFT calculations of binding energies of hydrogen and cyclohexene on Pt–3d–Pt(111) and 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
The binding energies of unsaturated hydrocarbons, such as cyclohexene, typically follow the same trend as HBE. As shown in Figure 10b, DFT calculations reveal that the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structures bond to cyclohexene more weakly than Pt(111) and the corresponding 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface structures. For example, DFT results indicate that both cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen are more weakly bonded on Pt–Ni–Pt(111) than on Ni–Pt–Pt(111), Pt(111), and Ni(111), suggesting that the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure should be more effective for the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene than the other three surfaces. This has been confirmed experimentally by comparing the hydrogenation activity of cyclohexene on these four surfaces using temperature-programmed desorption (TPD), as shown in Figure 11. (27) As illustrated in the TPD peak area of the cyclohexane product, the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure shows the highest hydrogenation yield, with the desorption peak centered at a very low temperature of 203 K. Similar Pt-terminated bimetallic surface structures can be produced by depositing one monolayer of Pt on a Ni(111) substrate, which also possesses the novel low-temperature pathway for cyclohexene hydrogenation. (53)
Figure 11
Figure 11. (a) TPD of hydrogenation of cyclohexene on Ni/Pt(111) monometallic and bimetallic surfaces; (b) volcano-type relationship between hydrogenation activity and surface d-band center value of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
The trend in the DFT calculations in Figure 10b also shows that the binding energies of cyclohexene on Pt–Co–Pt(111) and Pt–Fe–Pt(111) are even weaker than that on Pt–Ni–Pt(111). Although this might suggest that the former two surfaces would be more active toward hydrogenation than Pt–Ni–Pt(111); one should keep in mind that the adsorption of cyclohexene needs to be strong enough for the hydrogenation to take place. One would therefore expect to observe a volcano relationship for the hydrogenation activity as the d-band center moves further away from the Fermi level, i.e., when the adsorption of cyclohexene becomes too weak for hydrogenation to occur. This is verified experimentally in the results shown in Figure 11b. The hydrogenation yield from TPD measurements is the highest on Pt–Ni–Pt(111) but starts to decrease on the Pt–Co–Pt(111) and Pt–Fe–Pt(111) surfaces, where the binding of cyclohexene becomes too weak for hydrogenation to occur. On the other side of the volcano curve, the binding energies of cyclohexene on the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces are too strong, preventing the effective hydrogenation of cyclohexene. (27)
Extension to Polycrystalline Ni/Pt Films
Polycrystalline bimetallic films provide a potential way to bridge the materials gap between single-crystal surfaces and supported catalysts. As illustrated earlier in Figure 4, it is possible to assume that the surface chemistry of a bimetallic nanoparticle should be dominated primarily by the first few atomic layers. It is also reasonable to assume that the chemistry of the individual crystal facets on the nanoparticle (primarily (111) and (100) for an fcc nanoparticle) can be approximated by their respective single-crystal extension. (33) This is verified by studying cyclohexene hydrogenation on Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structures prepared on a polycrystalline Pt film consisting of mainly the (111) and (100) facets. (239) Similar to Pt(111), monolayer Ni was deposited on a Pt foil at room temperature to produce the Ni–Pt–Pt surface structure, followed by annealing to higher temperatures to obtain the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure. (33) Similar to the corresponding single-crystal surfaces, the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt polycrystalline structure shows significantly higher hydrogenation activity than that from the polycrystalline Pt and Ni surfaces. These results confirm the assumption that the trend observed on single-crystal bimetallic surfaces can be extended to the polycrystalline counterparts.
Reactor Evaluation of Supported Ni/Pt Catalysts
Supported monometallic Pt and bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts have been synthesized on γ-Al2O3 using the incipient wetness method. (280, 303) Characterization of the catalysts by a variety of techniques, including EXAFS, confirms the formation of Pt–3d bimetallic bonds. As shown earlier in Figure 5, the Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalyst is Pt-terminated and resembles the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt structure. The Pt-terminated configuration is also consistent with results by Sedlacek et al. that the surfaces of Pt–Ni alloys are enriched in Pt when treated with H2, (304) as well as with findings reported by Arenas-Alatorre et al. for Pt–Ni catalysts supported on SiO2 (305) and by Mu et al. for Pt–Ni catalysts supported on graphite. (209) Because the Pt-terminated structure is thermodynamically stable in the presence of hydrogen (Figure 6), one would expect that the Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalyst should be very active for cyclohexene hydrogenation.
The supported catalysts were evaluated using both batch and flow reactors to determine the hydrogenation kinetics of cyclohexene at a low temperature of 303 K. The hydrogenation rate constants were determined to be 1.7, 21, and 24 min–1 for Pt/γ-Al2O3, Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3, and Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3, respectively. (280) The trend observed in the rate constant for cyclohexene hydrogenation is consistent with that from the single-crystal surfaces for the same reaction, Pt–Ni–Pt(111) > Pt–Co–Pt(111) > Pt(111), as shown earlier in the volcano curve in Figure 11b. The similar trend between DFT predictions on single-crystal surfaces, UHV experimental studies on single-crystal and polycrystalline model surfaces, and reactor evaluation over supported catalysts provides an important demonstration of designing bimetallic catalysts from combined theoretical and experimental approaches.
4.1.1.2 Low-Temperature Hydrogenation of Olefins, Dienes, and Aromatics
Similar theoretical and experimental studies have been extended to the hydrogenation of C═C bonds in a variety of molecules over Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structures and supported Pt–3d catalysts. Goda et al. (306) performed DFT calculations of 1-butene and 1-hexene on 3d/Pt(111) surfaces and found that the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structure binds more weakly to 1-butene and 1-hexene than on Pt(111) and 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces, similar to the trend observed for cyclohexene. Murillo et al. (228) verified the DFT predictions with TPD measurement of facile low-temperature hydrogenation of 1-butene and 1-hexene on Pt–Ni–Pt(111). These results further suggest that DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energy can be used as descriptors for catalysts with good hydrogenation activity. Similar DFT calculations have been performed for the binding energies of 1,3-butadiene, (238) 1,3-cyclohexadiene, (244) 1,4-cyclohexadiene, (243) and benzene (277) on 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. On the basis of the binding energies and subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structures, correspondingly supported Pt–3d catalysts are predicted to show high hydrogenation activity for these molecules. These DFT predictions have been confirmed in reactor studies, as described below.
Hydrogenation of 1,3-Butadiene, 1,3-Cyclohexadiene, And 1,4-Cyclohexadiene
Bimetallic Pt–M (M = Co, Ni, Cu) are active toward the low-temperature hydrogenation of all three molecules when supported on γ-Al2O3. (238, 243) Pt–Ni and Pt–Co bimetallic catalysts both show higher hydrogenation rates than monometallic Pt. The Pt–Cu/γ-Al2O3 catalyst shows lower activity than Pt/γ-Al2O3 in batch and flow reactor studies; however, Pt–Cu/γ-Al2O3 shows higher selectivity toward cyclohexene and butenes than the other catalysts, indicating that it is a promising catalyst for partial hydrogenation reactions. (238, 243) Similarly to the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst, the surface structure of the Pt–Cu catalyst has been shown to be influenced by the surrounding atmosphere. (307) The Pt–Fe/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalyst also shows higher selectivity toward 1-butene rather than full hydrogenation to n-butane. (288)
The hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene has also been used as a probe reaction to further understand the catalytic properties of supported Pt–Ni catalysts. Combined EXAFS characterization and reactor studies compare Pt–Ni catalysts prepared using either sequential or coimpregnation methods. The results reveal that coimpregnation leads to higher hydrogenation activity and that the hydrogenation activity is directly related to the extent of Pt–Ni bimetallic bond formation. (143) Furthermore, by comparing the hydrogenation activity of Pt–Ni supported over low- and high-surface-area alumina and zirconia, it is revealed that the surface area of the oxide supports also plays a role in controlling the hydrogenation rate of 1,3-butadiene. (276)
Selective Hydrogenation of Acetylene in Ethylene
The selective hydrogenation of acetylene in the presence of ethylene is an important reaction because acetylene poisons the catalysts in ethylene polymerization reactions. (308) The Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts show a higher selectivity for acetylene hydrogenation in the presence of excess ethylene than the monometallic Pt and Ni catalysts. (303) The selective hydrogenation of acetylene is also a probe reaction to determine the effect of impregnation sequence of the Pt and Ni metal precursors. By impregnating Pt first, the bimetallic catalyst is much more active for acetylene hydrogenation. EXAFS measurements confirm bimetallic bond formation in the Pt-first catalyst but not in the Ni-first catalyst, likely due to the possible diffusion of Ni2+ into the cavities of the γ-Al2O3 support to produce Ni aluminate. However, at higher Ni loadings the impregnation sequence does not seem to play an important role. (303)
Hydrogenation of Aromatics
The hydrogenation of benzene to cyclohexane is of significant importance in the petroleum industry and for environmental protection. The process of benzene hydrogenation has been utilized commercially for the production of cyclohexane, which is one of the key intermediates in the synthesis of Nylon-6 and Nylon-66. (309) DFT calculations identified Pt–Co bimetallic catalysts as promising materials for the hydrogenation of benzene, which were confirmed experimentally over supported Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 at a relatively low temperature of 343 K. (280, 310) The hydrogenation rate over Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 was significantly higher than that over Co/γ-Al2O3 or Pt/γ-Al2O3. (279, 280) Comparative studies have also been performed on different supports that reveal that hydrogenation of benzene at 343 K over Pt–Co bimetallic catalysts follows the activity trend of activated carbon (AC) ≫ SiO2 > γ-Al2O3 > TiO2. The AC support exhibits the highest activity and performance due to the greatest extent of Pt–Co bimetallic formation from the EXAFS measurements. (277) Another feature of Pt–Co supported catalysts is that almost all Pt atoms in these catalysts exist in the form of Pt–Co, and the remaining Co forms a Co phase on the metal oxide support. (295)
In addition to bimetallic bond formation, Pt-based bimetallic catalysts improve performance by increasing the reducibility of alloyed metals. (171, 311) For example, Pt–Ni, Pt, and Ni supported on SiO2 and mixed TiO2 + SiO2 oxides were tested for the hydrogenation of toluene to methylcyclohexane for the production of cleaner-burning fuels. TPR experiments indicated that Pt promoted the reducibility of NiO, partially explaining the increased activity of the bimetallic Pt–Ni catalyst compared with either monometallic catalyst. (278)
Reports of hydrogenation activity on Pt–Pd catalysts have been conflicting. Pt–Pd catalysts supported on mixed magnesium and aluminum oxides are active for the removal of aromatics from diesel fuel to lower emissions. A higher Pd/Pt ratio leads to higher hydrogenation of naphthalene. (138) However, the activity of Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 for the hydrogenation of toluene does not show any synergistic activity, with the activity of the bimetallic catalyst being simply the sum of the activity of each monometallic catalyst. (168) The difference in reports seen on Pt–Pd may be due to different preparation techniques because different techniques have been shown to strongly influence the degree of bimetallic bond formation. (312)
Pt–Pd catalysts have exhibited a stronger bimetallic effect and greater sulfur tolerance when promoted with fluorine. Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 catalysts with and without fluorine were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation for hydrogenation of polyaromatic hydrocarbons. Pt–Pd catalysts promoted with F showed higher activity than the unpromoted Pt–Pd catalyst. EXAFS analysis showed that the Pt–Pd alloy was disrupted at high conversions of reactants, but the catalysts synthesized with F did not exhibit a disruption of the Pt–Pd bonds. (139) Babu et al. have shown that the interaction of Pt with Pd led to a reduction in the Fermi level local density of states at the Pd sites. This electronic modification may be the cause of improved catalytic performance of Pt–Pd catalysts with high coordination numbers for bimetallic Pt–Pd bonds. (313)
Hydrogenation of m-Cresol
The hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of m-cresol was performed over Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 to determine the role of hydrogenation for HDO. (314) The bimetallic catalysts were found to be very active toward the saturation of the aromatic ring, leading to a facile HDO rate in combination with the dehydration function of the γ-Al2O3 support. Because of the importance of HDO in converting biomass-derived oxygenates to fuels and chemicals, it is anticipated that the low-temperature hydrogenation activity of Pt–3d bimetallic catalysts should play a significant role in HDO catalysis.
4.1.2 C═O Hydrogenation
Catalytic hydrogenation of the C═O bond is an important industrial reaction for organic synthesis. (315, 316) The selective hydrogenation of the C═O bond in α,β-unsaturated aldehydes has been of growing interest for the production of fine chemicals and pharmaceutical precursors. (315, 317) More recently, C═O bond hydrogenation has been considered as an important initial step in catalytic conversion of cellulosic biomass. (318, 319) In this section we will first use the hydrogenation of propanal over Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts as an example to demonstrate the correlation between DFT calculations of binding energies, UHV studies of low-temperature hydrogenation, and batch and flow reactor evaluation. The rest of the section will focus on using bimetallic surfaces and catalysts to promote the selective C═O bond hydrogenation in unsaturated aldehydes.
4.1.2.1 Example: Hydrogenation of Propanal
The hydrogenation of propanal is used as a probe reaction to correlate the activity of C═O bond hydrogenation over Pt–Ni bimetallic surfaces and catalysts. (245) DFT calculations predict that propanal is more weakly bound to the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) subsurface structure than on either Ni or Pt, suggesting a possible low-temperature C═O hydrogenation pathway based on trends observed for C═C hydrogenation. UHV studies using TPD on Ni-modified polycrystalline Pt foil verify that different bimetallic surface structures exhibit distinct C═O hydrogenation activity, with the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure demonstrating much higher activity for propanal hydrogenation than Pt, Ni, and the Ni–Pt–Pt surface structure. The UHV results are extended to supported Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts. In the gas-phase hydrogenation of propanal, batch and flow reactor studies show that the Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalyst exhibits a higher C═O hydrogenation rate and a lower activation barrier than the corresponding monometallic catalysts. (245) The excellent correlation between DFT predictions, UHV studies on model surfaces, and catalytic evaluation of supported catalysts demonstrates the feasibility to predict bimetallic catalysts with enhanced C═O hydrogenation activity.
Using similar approaches, DFT calculations and reactor evaluations were performed for C═O bond hydrogenation of acetaldehyde (246) and acetone (246, 247) over supported Pt–3d bimetallic catalysts. Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts showed significantly higher hydrogenation rates for acetaldehyde and acetone than the monometallic Pt and Co catalysts. (246) Acetone hydrogenation was used as a probe reaction to determine the effect of oxide supports over Pt–Ni supported on SiO2, γ-Al2O3, and TiO2 at 308 K. (247) It was found that Pt–Ni/SiO2 exhibited significantly higher hydrogenation activity than the other supports. These hydrogenation results correlate well with EXAFS data showing the extent of Pt–Ni bond formation of SiO2 > γ-Al2O3 > TiO2. (247)
4.1.2.2 Selective Hydrogenation of C═O in Unsaturated Aldehydes
The selective hydrogenation of acrolein, the smallest α,β-unsaturated aldehyde, has been investigated on several 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. (17, 241) DFT binding energies of acrolein on H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111), H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111), and H/Pt(111) surfaces are calculated using di-σ-C–C, di-σ-C–O, and η4(C,C,C,O) adsorption configurations, as shown in Figure 12a. (17) Figure 12b shows the hydrogen and acrolein binding energies on the three surfaces. The DFT results show that the binding energies of acrolein are in the order of H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) < H/Pt(111) < H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111). (17) On the H/Pt(111) and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces, acrolein tends to be adsorbed through the di-σ-C–C mode, whereas on the H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface, the similar binding energies will lead acrolein to be adsorbed through both the C═O and C═C moieties. The direct interaction of the C═O group in the latter bonding configuration at least partially contributes to the experimentally observed hydrogenation of the C═O bond on the H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface. In comparison, bonding of acrolein occurs through the C═C moiety over H/Pt and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces, preventing the selective hydrogenation of the C═O bonds. (17, 241) The presence of the di-σ-C–O configuration has also been proposed for the adsorption of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes on Pt–Fe/SiO2, responsible for the selective hydrogenation of the C═O bond for the formation of α,β-unsaturated alcohols. (286)
Figure 12
Figure 12. (a) Side view and top view of configurations of adsorbed acrolein through di-σ-C–C, di-σ-C–O, and η4(C,C,C,O) on the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface. (b) DFT calculations of acrolein and hydrogen binding energies versus the surface d-band center for H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111), H/Pt(111), and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (17)
The selective hydrogenation of acrolein has been extensively investigated over many Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. On unsupported Pt–Pd catalysts, it was found that the metal ratios strongly affected the hydrogenation products. For acrolein hydrogenation at temperatures from 293 to 473 K, it was found that propanal was the primary product for all catalysts. However, for the secondary products, dipropyl ether was formed primarily over Pd, whereas propane and propanol were formed over Pt. As the surface of the bimetallic catalyst increased in Pt atoms, the catalyst behaved more like the monometallic Pt catalyst. (289)
Although Au is typically regarded as an inactive metal for hydrogenation reactions, combining Au with Pt can greatly increase its activity. (281) Au is a poor hydrogenation metal because it does not dissociatively adsorb H2. (320) UHV studies have shown that CO binds to the surface of Pt on top of Au(111) more strongly than to clean Pt because the Au substrate increases the activity of the Pt overlayer, with the change in the CO binding energy being proportional to the shift of the d-band center of the Pt metal. (320, 321) Such a modification effect on model surfaces has also been observed in supported Pt–Au catalysts. Pt–Au/SiO2 catalysts were found to be highly active for the hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated compounds because of the synergism between the Pt and Au metals. (281, 322) The high hydrogenation activity of Pt–Au could be a result of the rapid H2 dissociation on Pt and Pt–Au nanoparticles supported on SiO2 and TiO2. H2 dissociation on Pt–Au and Pt is considerably faster than H2 dissociation on Au, because H2 adsorption on Pt atoms is dissociative and no activation barriers are involved. (320) In addition to greater hydrogenation activity, Pt–Au shows enhanced resistance to deactivation when compared with a monometallic Pt catalyst. (147)
In general, the hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes over Pt-based catalysts usually yields the saturated aldehydes as the dominant products because of defect sites present in the metallic structure. Defects on metal surfaces favor interactions with the C═C moiety, which account for the undesired aldehyde products. It is hypothesized that 100% selectivity can be achieved through careful control of the size and shape of metallic active sites. (298) Tsang et al. confirmed that, at larger crystal sizes, Pt nanoparticles were more active for selective hydrogenation of the C═O bond in cinnamaldehyde. This is because the fraction of defect sites on Pt nanoparticles decreases with increasing Pt crystal size. Hydrogenation of the C═O bond in crotonaldehyde over Pt–Sn supported on SiO2 and α-Al2O3 demonstrated that the particle-size effect was not as important on bimetallic catalysts as it was on monometallic catalysts. This was because the addition of Sn had a greater effect on the selectivity to the unsaturated alcohol than the change in particle size. (299) Therefore, to increase the selectivity toward hydrogenation of the carbonyl bond with smaller metallic nanoparticles, it is necessary to add a second metal. This can be achieved by the addition of a more electropositive metal such as Co, (166, 298) Ge, (150) Fe, (150, 284) Ga, (140) Ni, (284) or Sn. (284)
For the hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde, the addition of Co to Pt nanoparticles produces cinnamyl alcohol as the primary product with a selectivity of 99.6%. (298) Pt–Co nanoparticles were prepared within a critical size range of 4.0–6.1 nm by colloid chemistry and then were applied to carbon supports. It was found that the Pt–Co/C catalysts hydrogenated the terminal C═O bond with high activity, while the catalyst was inactive toward the C═C bond. (298) These results were confirmed by Zheng et al., who showed that Pt–Co/SiO2 was much more selective toward the hydrogenation of the C═O bond than of C═C in cinnamaldehyde. (301)
Pt–Sn catalysts have also been shown to be active for selective hydrogenation reactions, with the hydrogenation activity and selectivity to unsaturated alcohols being highly dependent on the Sn/Pt ratio. It is suggested that the carbonyl group of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes is activated by a Sn species interacting with the oxygen atom, while dilution of Pt atoms by metallic Sn hinders the hydrogenation of the C═C bond and suppresses the readsorption of the unsaturated alcohol. (150, 285) Catalysts with Pt and Sn in close contact are more selective in the hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde to cinnamyl alcohol as compared with catalysts with a lesser interaction. (140) The interaction of Sn and Pt in Pt–Sn nanoparticles is known to be affected by the catalyst-preparation method and impregnation sequence. Co-impregnation of the fumed Al2O3 support with Pt and small amounts of Sn facilitates the formation of high Pt dispersion; however, sequential impregnation of the fumed Al2O3 support with Sn first, followed by Pt, leads to low Pt dispersion. (323)
In addition to the metal affecting selectivity, the support has been found to play a major role in Pt–Sn catalysts. A carbon nanotube (CNT) support can be useful to concentrate reactants in an area close to the active metal, (300) whereas supports that exchange oxygen with the reactants, such as TiO2, (297) ZnO, (324) or CeO2, (324) have been shown to dramatically affect reaction chemistry. The addition of Sn to a Pt catalyst on a reducible support can influence the ability of the support to remove surface carbon through oxygen exchange (324) and help to maintain Sn in a fully reduced state. (325) The removal of surface carbon is critical to prevent deactivation of the catalyst. For example, on TiO2, selective hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde was performed over Pt/TiO2 and Pt–Sn/TiO2 catalysts after reduction at 473 and 773 K. The bimetallic catalyst reduced at high temperature was much more active for crotonaldehyde hydrogenation. The C═O bond was selectively hydrogenated because partially reduced TiOx species contain oxygen vacancies that interact with the oxygen atom of the carbonyl group and participate in the hydrogenation. (283) In another example, a Pt–Ge/TiO2 catalyst hydrogenated citral into unsaturated alcohols where both oxidized Ge and TiO2 species participated in the activation of the C═O bond, indicating there was a strong metal–support interaction (SMSI), but at higher metal loadings the bimetallic effect was dominant. (152)
Pt–Sn catalysts have been found to be active for the partial hydrogenation of furfural when supported on NaY zeolites and SiO2. (142, 291) Pt–Sn/SiO2 catalysts were synthesized with varying amounts of Sn, and all catalysts produced furfuryl alcohol from furfural with selectivities greater than 95%. Bimetallic catalysts were more active than the monometallics but exhibited some degree of deactivation. The Pt–Sn catalyst synthesized with a ratio of 1:0.3 Pt/Sn deactivated at the lowest rate. (142) High hydrogenation activity is favored in large Pt–Sn particles because of the presence of a higher amount of oxidized Sn on the surface of the particles. (284, 311)
4.1.2.3 Hydrogenation of C═O in Other Molecules
The hydrogenation of maleic anhydride can produce many different products, but only some of the products are valuable in industry. Supported Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts showed higher hydrogenation activity than the corresponding monometallic catalysts. Pt–Ni catalyzed the reaction for the production of succinic acid with 100% conversion and high selectivity to succinic anhydride. (292, 293)
The Pt–Fe/SiO2 catalyst has been used for the partial hydrogenation of acetic acid. Adding small amounts of Pt to Fe/SiO2 catalysts increased Fe reducibility, increased activity by 10 times, lowered the apparent activation energy, and maintained the selectivity to acetaldehyde at >70%. On carbon-supported catalysts, the addition of Pt to Fe/C prevented deactivation associated with iron carbide formation. (287)
Amines are important compounds for manufacturing dyes, solvents, detergents, and drugs. A simple method to form amines is by the reduction of amides, but amides are considered difficult to reduce. Burch et al. found that Pt–Re/TiO2 supported catalysts, synthesized by impregnation, were able to selectively hydrogenate the C═O bond in N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one to form N-methylpyrrolidine, an amine. Figure 13 shows that both Pt impregnated onto a Re/TiO2 catalyst and Re impregnated onto a Pt/TiO2 catalyst showed conversions over 80%, much greater than those of either monometallic catalyst. γ-Al2O3 and CeZrO4 supported catalysts were also effective for hydrogenation of N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one, but the TiO2-based catalysts exhibited increased activity over the other supports due to the presence of oxygen vacancies. DFT studies showed that Re sites activated the C═O bond while Pt aided in the reduction of Re–O groups. The parent monometallic catalysts were not active in this reaction, indicating that close interaction between Re and Pt was critical in providing an active catalyst. (290)
Figure 13
Figure 13. Variation of amide conversion as a function of time for the hydrogenation of N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one at 120 °C, 20 bar H2, stirred at 1500 rpm in hexane using (■) 4 wt % Pt–4 wt % Re/TiO2, (●) 4 wt % Re–4 wt % Pt/TiO2, (▲) 4 wt % Pt/TiO2, and (⧫) 4 wt % Re/TiO2. (290) Reproduced with permission from ref 290. Copyright 2011 Elsevier.
Other Pt-based bimetallic catalysts have also shown increased hydrogenation activity such as Ti, (322) Zr, (322) Hf, (322) and Zn (283) for C═O and C═C hydrogenation, Ag (326) for C═C hydrogenation, and Mo (296) for CO hydrogenation. For CO hydrogenation, Pt–Mo/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts were much more active than the monometallic catalysts because Pt aided in the reduction of Mo. Mo segregated to the surface of the supported nanoparticles, and the segregation was unaffected by the sequence of the metal addition. EXAFS results showed that Mo–Mo bond lengths were near that of Pt with Mo on the surface of the metallic nanoparticles. (296)
4.1.3 N═O and C≡N Hydrogenation
Catalytic hydrogenation of nitriles is an important industrial process to manufacture the nylon monomer, hexamethylenediamine, from adiponitrile. Butyronitrile has been used as a model compound for C≡N hydrogenation because it only contains one nitrile group. In liquid-phase experiments, Siepen et al. found that Pt–Rh/AC catalysts synthesized by a colloid method were active for hydrogenation of the C≡N bond in butyronitrile. EXAFS measurements indicated that Rh atoms were concentrated at the surface of the bimetallic nanoparticles. This finding was confirmed by CO FTIR, which showed a characteristic Rh-dicarbonyl species bound to the catalyst. It was hypothesized that the Pt core atoms draw electrons from the Rh surface atoms, possibly explaining the enhanced hydrogenation activity of the bimetallic catalyst. Enhanced activity was seen on Pt–Rh bimetallic catalysts prepared by sequential impregnation and not in catalysts synthesized with coimpregnation of both metals. (282)
Huang and Sachtler (327) investigated the hydrogenation of acetonitrile and butyronitrile in the gas phase in a fixed-bed microreactor and in the liquid phase in an autoclave. They found that addition of Pt to Ni supported on NaY zeolite promotes the reduction of Ni2+ and increases the hydrogenation rate of butyronitrile in both the gas and liquid phases. Catalysts with Cu and Pt also supported on NaY zeolite show increased reduction of the metal alloyed with Pt, but the activity is lower for acetonitrile hydrogenation. Addition of Sn to Pt on SiO2 decreases the activity for acetonitrile hydrogenation but increases the selectivity to secondary amines. (327)
Synthesis of aromatic haloamines is important for the production of dyes, herbicides, and pesticides. Metal catalysts are preferred for the hydrogenation of halonitroaromatics to reduce the environmental impact of traditional hydrogenation with HCl. Liu et al. found that PVP-stabilized Pt–Ru colloids, prepared by a colloid-synthesis method, selectively hydrogenated the N═O bond of o-chloronitrobenzene to form o-chloroaniline. Catalysts were characterized by TEM, XPS, and XRD, and the reaction was performed in methanol at 303 K. The hydrogenation was most effective with particles composed of 20–90% Ru, with Co2+ added to the reaction vessel. (328) Similar studies on Pt–Ru/γ-Al2O3 for the hydrogenation of N═O in 2,5-dichloronitrobenzene also showed high activity and selectivity. (329)
Pt–Cu/γ-Al2O3 catalysts can be used for the reduction of nitrates and nitrites into nitrogen for the treatment of drinking water. A bimetallic catalyst is advantageous for this process because copper can reduce nitrates and nitrites but deactivates rapidly in water, whereas monometallic platinum catalysts are inactive for nitrate reduction. By alloying Pt with Cu, the Cu is maintained in a metallic state while the reaction occurs in an aqueous environment. Monometallic catalysts were prepared by impregnation, and bimetallic catalysts were prepared by sequential impregnation or reductive deposition of the second metal. Catalysts were characterized with TEM to confirm nanoparticle size, and CO FTIR was used to confirm the accessibility of Pt on the catalytic support. Reactions performed in an aqueous-phase batch reactor at 283 K showed that nitrates were quickly reduced on the Pt–Cu bimetallic catalyst when both metals were in close contact. Although required for high activity, the addition of copper slightly lowered the selectivity to nitrogen and raised the selectivity to NH4+. (330) Pt–In supported on γ-Al2O3 and SiO2, prepared by impregnation, were also active for the reduction of nitrates in drinking water. XPS and TPR results showed that the catalytic surfaces were enriched in In, but catalysts deactivated quickly due to segregation of the Pt and In. (331)
4.2 Dehydrogenation Reactions
Selective dehydrogenation is important for the production of chemicals and fuels, as well as for hydrogen storage. Table 5 summarizes selected reactor studies of dehydrogenation of C–H and N–H bonds over supported catalysts, including the synthesis methods, characterization techniques, and dehydrogenation temperatures. Selected UHV studies of dehydrogenation reactions are listed in Table 3.
Table 5. Summary of Selected Dehydrogenation Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
bimetallic catalyst support synthesis method reactants reactor temperature characterization techniques
Pt–Sn (332) γ-Al2O3/Spinel-Al2O3 impregnation propane flow 773 K N2 adsorption, TEM, XRD, TPR, TPO, H2 chemisorption
SiO2 Zn–Al–O
Pt–Cu ZnAl2O4 impregnation paraffins flow 855 K TEM
Pt–Sn
Pt–Zn MgAl2O4
Pt–In (333)
Pt–Ni (334) none impregnation hydrazine batch 298 K TEM, SEM, EDS, XPS, ICP
Pt–Zn (141) SiO2 AC impregnation isobutane flow 773 K XPS, AES, TPR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (335) SiO2 impregnation cyclohexane flow 543 K TEM, FTIR, XAS, H2 chemisorption
Pt–Ni (244) γ-Al2O3 impregnation 1,3-cyclohexadie-ne batch 308 K FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (336) AC cloth impregnation cyclohexane flow 523–598 K XRD, TEM, H2 chemisorption
Pt–Sn (337) γ-Al2O3 MgO MgAlO impregnation propane flow 873 K TEM, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (338) MgAl2O4 impregnation, sol–gel propane flow 823 K N2 adsorption, TPD, TPR
Pt–Fe (286) SiO2 impregnation cyclohexane flow 543 K FTIR, XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption
Pt–Re (339) γ-Al2O3 impregnation naphtha flow 766, 769 K ICP, TPO, FTIR, N2 adsorption, TEM, CO chemisorption
Pt–Bi (340) Al2O3 (not specified) reductive desposition impregnation 1-phenylethano-l, trans-cinnamyl alcohol, 2-octanol batch (liq. phase) 328, 338, 358 K XPS, XAS, TEM
4.2.1 N–H Bond Scission
Ammonia is regarded as an important hydrogen-storage medium in a hydrogen economy due to its facile decomposition to produce hydrogen. However, the leading catalyst, Ru, is expensive and scarce, preventing it from large-scale commercial utilization. Hansgen et al. (14) have used microkinetic modeling combined with DFT calculations to build a model to identify alternative bimetallic catalysts for ammonia decomposition. A volcano relationship is identified between the nitrogen-binding energy on the surface and the conversion of ammonia, in which the maximum activity is predicted to be with a nitrogen-binding energy of 134 kcal/mol, (14) as shown in Figure 14. Table 6 shows a library of nitrogen-binding energies on various bimetallic surfaces, in which the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface exhibits a nitrogen-binding energy of 130.7 kcal/mol, (14) slightly lower than the optimal value. Parallel TPD experiments of ammonia decomposition are performed to compare the activity of surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111), subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111), Ni(111), and Pt(111). Consistent with the DFT and microkinetic prediction, the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface shows high activity for ammonia decomposition whereas the other three surfaces are inactive. (14) By comparing the desorption temperature of atomic nitrogen from the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface with that on Ru(0001), (341) the results show that the recombinative desorption temperature of nitrogen is lower on Ni–Pt–Pt(111), making it a potentially more active catalyst for NH3 decomposition. Hansgen et al. (253) have performed further investigations on the decomposition of ammonia on bimetallic surfaces prepared by the deposition of a monolayer of Fe, Co, or Cu on Pt(111) computationally and experimentally. The results reveal that the Fe–Pt–Pt(111) and Co–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces are active for ammonia decomposition whereas the Cu–Pt–Pt(111) surface is inactive for the reaction, consistent with the trend in nitrogen-binding energy in Table 6.
Figure 14
Figure 14. Ammonia decomposition volcano curve. (14)
Table 6. Library of DFT Binding Energies and Bond Lengths of Nitrogen Atoms at 1/9 ML Coverage on Various Monolayer Bimetallic Surfaces (14)
Although the dehydrogenation of NH3 has not been extended to reactor studies of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, the production of H2 from NH2NH2 has been reported on supported Pt–Ni catalysts. (334) Hydrazine monohydrate (NH2–NH2·H2O) has been investigated as a potential hydrogen-storage material because it is a liquid at room temperature and has a hydrogen-storage capacity of 8.0 wt %, meeting the Department of Energy (DOE) requirements of hydrogen-storage materials. Singh and Xu have recently explored unsupported Pt–Ni nanocatalysts for the selective dehydrogenation of hydrazine to produce H2 and N2 in a liquid-phase batch reactor at room temperature. Their results demonstrate that catalysts with Pt content between 7 and 31 mol % exhibit 100% hydrogen selectivity, whereas the corresponding Ni and Pt monometallic catalysts show no activity. (334)
4.2.2 C–H Bond Scission
The dehydration of alkanes is an important part of industrial processes used to produce polymers, ethers, and gasoline. Another potential use of dehydrogenation is to store hydrogen in a chemical with a higher volumetric energy density than hydrogen and to subsequently dehydrogenate the chemical when hydrogen is needed. Current high-temperature dehydration processes lead to sintering and rapid deactivation of catalysts, but by modifying Pt catalysts with a second metal, the selectivity, activity, and stability of the catalyst are maintained. (335) There is a general agreement that Pt is very active for dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons; however, Pt bonds too strongly to the unsaturated carbon intermediates, leading to the formation of coke and deactivation. Therefore, the strategy to improve the dehydrogenation activity is to alloy Pt with another metal to reduce the bonding of unsaturated hydrocarbons.
Such a hypothesis is verified in DFT calculations and UHV studies for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexene to benzene on Pt–Au surfaces. (254) As shown in the TPD results in Figure 15a, the production of benzene is enhanced after depositing 0.5 ML Au on Pt, which shows higher benzene yield than on either Pt or Au/Pt surfaces with higher Au coverages. The corresponding AES measurements (Figure 15b) show significant carbon accumulation on unmodified Pt after the TPD experiments, confirming that the Pt bonds too strongly to cyclohexene and decomposes it to produce atomic carbon. In comparison, no carbon accumulation is detected on the 0.5 ML Au/Pt surface after the same experimental procedures. The TPD and AES results are consistent with DFT predictions that the Au/Pt surfaces bind adsorbates more weakly than Pt, (254) and the results in Figure 15 indicate that modification of Pt by Au results in a more coking-resistant, and therefore more active, dehydrogenation catalyst.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Selective dehydrogenation of cyclohexene on polycrystalline Pt–Au bimetallic surfaces. (254)
Similarly, as described in the previous sections, DFT calculations predict that subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) also binds to unsaturated hydrocarbons more weakly than unmodified Pt(111). This is consistent with experimental observations that Pt–Ni–Pt(111) is more active for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexene than either of the parent metal surfaces. (15) Because the Pt-terminated surface should be preferred under the reducing environment of dehydrogenation reactions, the DFT and UHV results suggest that supported Pt–Ni catalysts should be effective dehydrogenation catalysts. This is confirmed in reactor studies that show Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 is more active for dehydrogenation of 1,3-cyclohexadiene than either monometallic catalyst. (244) The effect of bimetallic catalysts on dehydrogenation is also found to be synergistic for cyclohexane dehydrogenation over Pt–Ni/AC. Hydrogen production on the bimetallic catalysts is enhanced by 1.5 times as compared to the 20 wt % Ni catalyst and by 60 times as compared to the 0.5 wt % Pt catalyst. (336)
In addition to Pt–Au and Pt–Ni, modification of Pt by Sn also enhances the resistance to carbon accumulation. Extensive UHV studies by Koel and co-workers have revealed that the addition of Sn on the Pt(111) surface decreases the binding energies of adsorbed molecules. (235, 248, 249) The selective dehydrogenation of 1,3-cyclohexadiene is studied using DFT calculations, (251) which show that the presence of Sn on Pt(111) facilitates the first two dehydrogenation steps that produce benzene, prohibits further decomposition of benzene, and thus increases the selectivity of the dehydrogenation of 1,3-cyclohexadiene to gas-phase benzene. Other DFT and experimental studies of alkenes, such as ethylene, (248) propylene, (248) isobutylene, (248) cyclopentene, (250) and a number of C6 hydrocarbons, (249) on Sn/Pt alloys also demonstrate that the presence of surface Sn increases the dehydrogenation selectivity. Reactor studies also show that adding only a small amount of Sn to Pt catalysts improves the dehydrogenation selectivity and reduces the deactivation rate.
Addition of Sn to Pt catalysts supported on Zn–Al–O and mixed spinel Al2O3/γ-Al2O3 has been shown to increase the selectivity to propylene for propane dehydrogenation and decrease the deactivation rate of the catalyst. (332) Similar results are observed for isobutane dehydrogenation over Pt–Sn/γ-Al2O3. The selectivity to butenes increases from 53% for the Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalyst up to 85–90% for the Pt–Sn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. (335) The lower deactivation rate is due to a decrease in the binding energy of unsaturated hydrocarbons on the bimetallic particles, thereby lowering carbon deposits on the bimetallic catalyst. (283) Catalytic activity over Pt–Sn improves by pretreating the catalysts with H2 and O2 prior to reaction because of increased metal dispersion on the support. (338)
Other metals that promote dehydrogenation reactions when alloyed with Pt are Bi, (340) Re, (339) Pd, (342, 343)In, (333) and Fe. (286) Pt supported on spinel Al2O3 synthesized with Sn, Cu, and In are active for the dehydrogenation of lower alkanes because these catalysts can withstand harsh reducing and oxidizing conditions. (333) Over Pt–Fe/SiO2, dehydrogenation activity is enhanced because Pt aids in the reduction of Fe as confirmed by FTIR. Although small amounts of Fe improve catalytic performance, large amounts of Fe lead to rapid deactivation due to the formation of an iron oxide phase. (286)
Dwindling crude oil reserves and strict air pollution regulations have made reforming of low-octane naphtha into high-octane gasoline an attractive economic opportunity. Liu et al. recently utilized a template synthesis procedure to formulate Pt–Re/γ-Al2O3 with high activity for naphtha dehydrogenation. (339) The synthesis method involved a poly(acrylic acid) (PAA) template to control the morphology of Pt nanoparticles on the surface of the support. TEM and CO chemisorption studies showed similar particle sizes between catalysts synthesized with PAA and catalysts synthesized by traditional impregnation methods. FTIR results of CO adsorption indicated that less bridged CO was present in the catalyst synthesized with PAA, suggesting a lower surface Pt coordination number. Reaction studies performed at 766 and 769 K showed that catalysts prepared with PAA exhibited a 1.4–2.4% higher yield and a longer projected lifetime over commercial Pt–Re catalysts prepared by traditional impregnation. Although small, a 1% increase in yield represents a significant economic prospect in an industry that produces 11 million barrels of reformate from naphtha per day. (339) Another study of naphtha dehydrogenation was performed over Pt–Re/γ-Al2O3. (344) The bimetallic interactions were analyzed using EXAFS and both the Pt LIII and Re LIII edges were analyzed. If the catalysts were dried in air at temperatures ≤ 773 K prior to reduction, bimetallic bonds were formed. However, if the catalysts were dried at higher temperatures, the transport of Re was inhibited and there were fewer bimetallic interactions, leading to lower activity. (344)
The reforming of gasoline and diesel fuels has been proposed as a short-term option of H2 storage. Gasoline and diesel are both currently available, and using them as a hydrogen carrier instead of direct fuels could achieve some immediate reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. (345) Bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Pd catalysts supported on alumina or ceria have been shown to be active for diesel dehydrogenation. Both bimetallic catalysts not only improved the activity but also increased resistance to sulfur poisoning for diesel reforming. The enhanced stability of the bimetallic catalysts is due to strong metal–metal and metal–support interactions that change the electronic properties of the metals. These changes in electronic properties improve sulfur tolerance and overall catalytic performance. (342, 343)
Pt–Rh is another active bimetallic catalyst for gasoline dehydrogenation. Pt–Rh supported on a ceramic monolith was used for E85 dehydrogenation with 100% conversion at low flow rates without deactivation. At higher flow rates, the catalyst was unstable, and adding small amounts of sulfur to the feed led to irreversible deactivation due to coking. XPS studies revealed that the catalyst had a change in oxidation state after continuous time-on-stream. (345) Pt–Rh supported on ZrO2 was superior to both monometallic catalysts in terms of activity, selectivity, and deactivation rate for gasoline dehydrogenation. The addition of a small amount Rh to the Pt catalyst increased conversion from ∼30% to ∼70%. (346)
4.3 Reforming of Oxygenates
Selective reforming of oxygenates is a promising way to produce hydrogen for use in fuel cells, and syngas for production of chemicals and fuels, and in upgrading of feedstocks. (256, 258, 260, 347, 348) If the oxygenates are derived from renewable biomass, the reforming process is potentially CO2 neutral, as the CO2 byproduct can be consumed by future biomass growth. Other advantages of oxygenate reforming include low toxicity and low reactivity of the reactants, which are compatible with the current infrastructure for transportation and storage. Table 7 summarizes selected reactor studies of oxygenate reforming over supported catalysts; selected UHV studies of reforming over bimetallic surfaces are listed in Table 3.
Table 7. Summary of Selected Reforming Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
bimetallic catalyst support synthesis method reactants reactor temperature characterization techniques
Pt–Re (348) C impregnation glycerol, H2O flow (liq. phase) 483–523 K CO chemisorption, TPD, XAS, TEM
Pt–Ni γ-Al2O3 impregnation ethylene glycol, H2O flow (liq. phase) 453–498 K CO chemisorption, AAS, ICP
Pt–Co
Pt–Fe (349)
Pt–Ni (350) δ-Al2O3 impregnation n-butane, H2O flow 578–678 K none
Pt–Ni (351) nanofiber Al2O3 impregnation sorbitol, H2O flow N/A TEM, EDS, ICP/AES, TPR, TPO, TPD, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (352) nanofiber Al2O3 impregnation sorbitol, H2O flow N/A ICP/AES, XRD, N2 adsorption, TPR, TEM, EDS
ZrO2
CeO2
SiO2
mixed oxides
Pt–Au ZrO2 reverse micelle methanol flow 373–493 K XPS, AFM, TEM, EDS
Pt–Pd
Pt–Ru
Pt–Fe (353)
Pt–Ru (354) SiO2 impregnation methanol, H2O flow (liq. phase) 353 K TEM, XPS, H2 chemisorption, CO chemisorption
TiO2
Al2O3 (not specified)
MgO
CeO2
ZrO2
Pt–Ru (149) γ-Al2O3 organic clusters, impregnation ethanol, H2O flow 423 K TEM, XPS, TPR, TPD
Pt–Re C impregnation glycerol, H2O flow 548–573 K CO chemisorption
Pt–Os
Pt–Fe
Pt–Cu
Pt–Sn
Pt–Ir
Pt–Co
Pt–Rh
Pt–Ni (355)
Pt–Au (356) C reverse micelle glycerol, O2 flow 303–323 K ICP, XRD, XPS
Pt–Ni (171, 357) ZSM-5 zeolite colloid, impregnation CH4, CO2 flow 773 K N2 adsorption, XRD, FTIR, XPS, TPR, TGA/DTA, DRIFTS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (358) γ-Al2O3 impregnation CH4, H2O, O2 flow 1073 K FTIR, XAS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (359) zeolites impregnation CH4, CO2 flow 913 K XRD, EDS, XPS, N2 adsorption, TGA, TPR, SEM, TEM
Pt–Ni (172) δ-Al2O3 impregnation CH4, CO2, H2O, O2 flow 923 K XRD, XPS, EDS, TGA/DTA, SEM
Pt–Ni (360-362) γ-Al2O3 reverse micelle CH4, CO2 flow 623–1023 K XRD, XPS, TPR, N2 adsorption, TEM
Pt–Co (363) α-Al2O3 impregnation CH4, CO2 flow 873–1023 K XRD, TPR, XPS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Rh (345) Ceramic monolith impregnation ethanol, gasoline flow 923 K CO chemisorption, XPS, TPO, ICP
Pt–Rh (346, 364) ZrO2 impregnation gasoline, diesel flow 673–1173 K ICP-AES, TPR, N2 adsorption, DRIFTS, XRD, XPS, SEM, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Rh (342, 343) γ-Al2O3 CeO2 impregnation diesel flow (liq. phase) 673 K N2 adsorption, TPD, TPR, XPS
Pt–Rh (365) ZrO2 impregnation ethanol flow 973 K DRIFTS, FTIR, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ru (366) γ-Al2O3 organic clusters ethanol flow 673–823 K none
Pt–Ni (367) δ-Al2O3 impregnation ethanol flow 673–823 K none
Pt–Ni (368) γ-Al2O3 La2O3-modified γ-Al2O3 impregnation glycerol flow (liq. phase) 623 K TPR, XPS, XRD, ICP-AES, TPO, N2 adsorption
973 K
4.3.1 Reforming of Alcohols and Polyols
4.3.1.1 Pt–3d Bimetallic Surfaces and Catalysts
Small oxygenates, such as methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol, have been studied on 3d/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces to determine the bond scission sequence of oxygenate molecules. The desirable reaction pathway is selective C–C bond scission, to produce H2 and CO. DFT calculations were carried out to study the trend in the binding energies of oxygenates on bimetallic surfaces. Figure 16 shows the binding energies of methanol, methoxy, ethanol, and ethoxy on Pt(111), Ni(111), Pt–Ni–Pt(111), and Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (264) A nearly linear correlation between binding energy and the surface d-band center was observed, consistent with the theory of chemisorption by Hammer and Nørskov (302) and with the trends observed for other adsorbates in previous sections. The binding energies increase as the surface d-band center shifts closer to the Fermi level, with the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface showing the highest binding energies. The binding energies of molecular oxygenate species are low on all surfaces, between 3 and 12 kcal/mol. After removing the first hydrogen, the methoxy and ethoxy species adsorb more strongly to the surface, with binding energies ranging from 30 to 55 kcal/mol.
Figure 16
Figure 16. DFT results for binding energies of methanol, methoxy, ethanol, and ethoxy on Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
TPD measurements were carried out to monitor the reaction pathways of oxygenates on various Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. The oxygenate molecules studied included methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol. (258, 264, 259) H2 and CO were detected from TPD experiments as the main products from the four oxygenate molecules. No other product was observed with the exception of methane, which was produced after adsorption of ethanol. (258, 264) On Pt(111), methanol adsorbed reversibly on the surface without undergoing decomposition, consistent with previous studies. (255, 369-371) In contrast, significant amounts of H2 and CO were produced from methanol reforming on the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface. On the basis of the H2 and CO yields, the reforming activity follows the order of Pt–Ni–Pt(111) < Pt(111) < Ni(111) < Ni–Pt–Pt(111).
Similar trends in the reforming yields are observed for ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol. The oxygenate reforming yields obtained experimentally are correlated with the surface d-band center in Figure 17. (257-259) In general, the oxygenate reforming yield displays a somewhat linear correlation and increases as the surface d-band center is shifted closer to the Fermi level. It is important to point out that the trend is opposite of that observed for hydrogenation reactions on Ni/Pt(111) surfaces (Figure 11). The comparison indicates that surfaces that bind adsorbates more strongly, such as Ni–Pt–Pt(111), promote reforming reactions. One would also predict that at sufficiently high binding energies oxygenates would undergo complete decomposition instead of reforming. This is confirmed experimentally by comparing the reforming of ethanol and ethylene glycol (257) on Fe/Pt(111), Ti/Pt(111), and Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces, where a volcano relationship is observed between reforming yield and binding energies. For example, on the Ti–Pt–Pt(111) surface the binding energies become too strong, leading to a large fraction of oxygenates undergoing complete decomposition to produce atomic carbon and oxygen instead of CO. (257)
Figure 17
Figure 17. Reforming yields of ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol versus the surface d-band center. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
Using reforming of methanol and ethylene glycol as probe reactions, a similar trend in reforming activity is observed on Pt–Ni surfaces prepared on a polycrystalline Pt substrate. (262) On both substrates the Ni–Pt–Pt bimetallic surface shows higher reforming yield than Pt–Ni–Pt, Pt, and Ni surfaces, demonstrating the possibility to bridge the materials gap between single-crystal and polycrystalline materials for reforming reactions.
Reactor studies of aqueous-phase reforming of ethylene glycol show that supported bimetallic Pt–Ni, Pt–Co, and Pt–Fe catalysts are significantly more active per gram of catalyst and have higher turnover frequencies (TOFs) for hydrogen production than monometallic Pt catalysts. (349) As shown in Figure 18, the bimetallic catalyst with a 1:1 Pt/Ni ratio shows the higher TOF for H2 production. On the basis of the DFT and UHV results in Figure 17, the enhanced reforming activity observed on the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst can be explained by two somewhat conflicting possibilities. (1) If the structure of the supported catalyst is Pt-terminated, i.e., similar to the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure, the binding of CO and hydrogen would be weaker on the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst than on the Pt monometallic catalyst (Figure 10a), thereby increasing the fraction of surface sites available for reaction with ethylene glycol. (349) (2) If the structure of the supported catalyst is transformed to Ni-terminated due to the adsorption of oxygenates, the higher reforming activity would be consistent with the UHV results of Ni–Pt–Pt(111) being more active than Pt(111) for reforming reactions (Figure 17). The exact origin of the bimetallic enhancement can only be determined by in situ measurement of the surface termination of supported Pt–Ni catalysts, such as by EXAFS under aqueous-phase reforming conditions.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Fixed-bed reactor results for APR of 10 wt % ethylene glycol solutions at 483 K and 25.4 bar over Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts. (a) TOF–H2 (black) and alkane selectivity (gray); (b) specific H2 production rate (black) and irreversible CO chemisorption uptake (gray). (349) Reproduced with permission from ref 349. Copyright 2006 Springer.
Supported Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalysts were also found to be effective for ethanol reforming. The catalyst was resistant to coke deposition at a ratio of water to ethanol as low as 3.0. As the amount of water was increased, the conversion and H2 production also increased. (366) Soyal-Baltacıoğlu et al. agreed with these findings and found that the optimum metal loading for a Pt–Ni catalyst supported on γ-Al2O3 was 0.3 wt % Pt and 15 wt % Ni. (367)
4.3.1.2 Other Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
Pt-based catalysts have shown activity for reforming reactions when alloyed with Ni, (349-352) Co, (349) Sn, (323) Fe, (349, 353) Pd, (353) Ru, (149, 348, 353, 354) Re, (355, 372) Au, (353, 356) and Rh. (373, 374) Selective and facile methanol reforming offers a potential option for the production of hydrogen on board vehicles powered by fuel cells. Production of on-board hydrogen is an attractive option because it allows hydrogen-containing fuels to be stored and transported in liquid form, for which there is an existing infrastructure. (375) Methanol-reforming studies have been performed over a series of bimetallic Pt–M (M = Au, Pd, Ru, Fe) catalysts supported on ZrO2. (353) In these studies, catalysts are prepared by micelle synthesis to mitigate the difference of size and shape, thereby attributing variations in activity to the bimetallic effect. Bimetallic catalysts outperform monometallic Pt for methanol reforming in the order of Pt–Fe > Pt–Ru > Pt–Pd > Pt–Au > Pt. (353) High activity on the Pt–Fe catalysts is attributed to segregation of Fe to the surface of the nanoparticles during calcination due to the high affinity of Fe for oxygen. (353) The support also plays an important role for methanol reforming. Findings by Miyao et al. show that basic oxide supports improve the selectivity of methanol reforming to CO2 (maximizing H2 production) whereas acidic supports suppress the catalytic activity and selectivity. The highest activity and selectivity to CO2 are achieved over TiO2. (354)
Pt–Ru catalysts have been found to be more active for ethanol steam reforming than either parent metal; however, catalysts derived from organic clusters are more active than those derived from inorganic salts. (149) Pt–Rh bimetallic catalysts are also effective for ethanol reforming when supported on CeO2. Pt–Rh/CeO2 breaks C–H bonds before C–C bonds in ethanol; (374) therefore, Pt–Rh could enhance H2 production over alkane formation in ethanol reforming. (373) This hypothesis has been confirmed with studies on Pt–Rh/ZrO2 showing that the bimetallic catalyst reaches a conversion of 100% at temperatures above 973 K, with high selectivity for H2 formation. The bimetallic catalyst also shows improved stability over the monometallic Rh/ZrO2 catalyst due to less coke formation. (365)
Another option for reforming is to use glycerol, a waste product from biodiesel production. Reforming of glycerol into syngas in a flow reactor at 548 K shows an increase in H2, CO, CO2, and CH4 concentrations upon adding Re to Pt/C catalysts. (348) Re promotes the overall rate of glycerol reforming by reducing the binding energy of CO to Pt, which makes surface sites more available to participate in reforming. (348) Supported Pt–Re catalysts are also more tolerant to carbonaceous residues than supported Pt and, therefore, are less likely to deactivate rapidly. (322) The addition of Ru and Os to Pt/C catalysts has also shown to significantly increase the catalytic activity for glycerol reforming at low temperatures (548–573 K). (355)
4.3.2 Reforming of Other Oxygenates
Different from the small alcohols and polyols, the C═O functional group is also present in the ring-opened structures of C5 and C6 sugars. Glycolaldehyde, (23) the smallest molecule with both C–OH and C═O bonds as well as the same C/O ratio as the larger sugar molecules, is a good probe molecule to determine how the presence of the C═O functional group affects the reforming reaction mechanism. In the DFT study, glycolaldehyde is adsorbed on the atop sites of adjacent metal atoms. The optimized geometry on the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface is shown in parts a and b of Figure 19. As shown in Figure 19c, glycolaldehyde-binding energy (23) is found to increase as the surface d-band center moves closer to the Fermi level, consistent with the trend observed with small alcohols and polyols. According to glycolaldehyde TPD experiments, (23) Ni–Pt–Pt(111) shows the highest reforming activity and total activity among the Ni/Pt(111) surfaces. The activity trend found in experiments is consistent with the DFT prediction based on binding energy and surface d-band center values. On the basis of the comparison of the activity and reaction intermediates of ethylene glycol and glycolaldehyde, the presence of the C═O functionality enhances the activity on the Pt(111) surface. In contrast, for surfaces with high activity toward O–H bond cleavage, such as the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface, the presence of C═O does not significantly affect the activity or reaction pathway of C2 oxygenates. (23)
Figure 19
Figure 19. Top and side views of adsorption geometry of glycolaldehyde on Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and the correlation between the surface d-band center and glycolaldehyde binding energy on different surfaces (23) (Pt, blue; Ni, gray; C, aqua; O, red; H, white).
Figure 19c also includes the glycolaldehyde binding energy and d-band center values on monolayer Ni supported on a tungsten monocarbide (WC) surface. The similar values between the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and Ni/WC surfaces suggest similar reforming activity for the two surfaces, which is confirmed experimentally. (23) Such a comparison points out the possibility of using WC to replace Pt in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. More about this subject will be discussed in future research opportunities in section 5.
4.4 Other Important Catalytic Reactions
In this section we will provide an overview of several types of reactions that utilize bimetallic catalysts: CO oxidation, water gas shift (WGS) reaction, and methane conversions. At present there are few UHV studies of these reactions on Pt-based bimetallic surfaces. The overview will therefore focus primarily on reactor studies, with the anticipation that the intriguing properties of these catalysts would inspire future UHV studies to correlate model surfaces with supported catalysts. Table 8 lists selected reactor studies for each of the three reactions.
Table 8. Summary of Selected Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
4.4.1 CO Oxidation
Preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO has received significant attention due to the demand of CO-free hydrogen for proton-exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs). Su et al. (271) have performed DFT calculations of CO oxidation on surfaces of bulk Pt–Ni alloys and Pt(111). On the basis of the binding energies of adsorbed CO, O, and H, as well as the activation barriers for elemental reaction steps of CO and H oxidation, Pt-terminated Pt3Ni(111) is identified as an optimum catalyst for CO PROX in excess of hydrogen. (271)
The oxidation of CO is also studied on Fe/Pt(111), with the bimetallic surface structures being reversibly controlled between FeO/Pt(111) and subsurface Pt–Fe–Pt(111) via alternating oxidation and reduction treatments. (207, 208) The reversibility between these two structures leads to the tunability of the surface PROX activity on Fe/Pt(111). (208) The bimetallic surface transformation study is also carried out over supported Pt–3d transition metal (3d = Co, Ni, and Cu) nanoparticles treated at alternating oxidation and reduction atmospheres, and the reversible structural changes are also observed. (209)
Guided by the formation of FeO/Pt(111) surface after the oxidation treatment of Fe/Pt(111) and its importance in controlling PROX, Yao et al. (396) have prepared two-dimensional (2D) FeO nanoislands supported on Pt(111) surface with a well-controlled size, density, and surface structure using a two-step process. The FeO nanoislands are characterized using STM, XPS, and HREELS and are found to exhibit distinct atomic structures and electronic states from the strong interaction between FeO and the Pt(111) substrate. The coordinatively unsaturated ferrous (CUF) sites confined by crystalline matrix and on highly diluted samples are proposed to have high reactivity and stability in oxidation reactions. (397) The confinement effect at the interface between FeO nanoislands and Pt(111) is studied by Fu et al. (272) for CO oxidation. An oxygen-deficient FeO1–x/Pt(111) surface shows higher CO oxidation reactivity than Pt(111) and other Fe oxide overlayers, i.e., FeO1+x/Pt(111) surfaces. Attempts are made to prepare the CUF active sites over supported catalysts. The Pt–Fe/SiO2 catalyst shows significantly higher CO PROX activity than Pt/SiO2, with the bimetallic catalyst showing CO oxidation at temperatures as low as 200 K and achieving 100% CO conversion at room temperature. The highly active Pt–Fe nanocatalysts are also found to show excellent stability in a 1-KW PEMFC working system and are thus feasible for industrial application. (272) The interface confinement effect and enhanced CO oxidation are also confirmed for the Pt–Ni system by Mu et al., (273) where the reversible structures are identified as NiO1–x/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) and NiO1–x/Pt(111) surfaces. Mu et al. (273) have also proposed a synergetic effect of the surface and subsurface Ni species for CO oxidation: the surface Ni oxide nanoislands activate O2 to produce atomic O species, and the subsurface Ni atoms further enhance the elementary reaction of CO oxidation with O.
The results on model surfaces are consistent with reactor studies over supported Pt–Fe and Pt–Ni catalysts. Pt–Fe/γ-Al2O3, Pt–Fe2/γ-Al2O3, and Pt–Fe3/γ-Al2O3 outperform Pt/γ-Al2O3 for the PROX of CO in a combined stream of CO and H2. (398) Siani et al. have proposed that the increased activity for CO oxidation correlates with the extent of Pt–Fe interactions and the strength of CO adsorption. (286) PROX of CO over supported Pt/γ-Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 shows that the bimetallic catalyst has higher CO conversion with higher CO2 selectivity over a wide reaction temperature range in the presence of excess hydrogen. At low temperature, increasing the molar ratio of Ni/Pt increases the catalytic activity of Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3. (377) The coimpregnated Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalyst exhibits a much lower reduction temperature than Pt,Ni/γ-Al2O3 and Ni,Pt/γ-Al2O3 prepared by sequential impregnation. (376) Alumina is a superior support when compared with TiO2 and ZrO2. (376)
Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 catalysts are also more active than either parent metal for CO oxidation in gas streams containing hydrogen. (378) When supported on yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ), Pt–Co is highly efficient for CO PROX in a H2-rich gas stream at temperatures below 423 K. The addition of Co to Pt/YSZ results in enhancement of catalytic performance, especially in the temperature region below 423 K. Isolated bimetallic Pt–Co nanoparticles interacting with the support seem to give rise to the high catalytic activity. (379) Findings by Komatsu and Tamura agree that Pt–Co/SiO2 catalysts are more effective for PROX than either parent metal. (380) By varying the Pt/Co atomic ratios in the catalysts, a ratio of Pt/Co = 3 is identified as the most effective for the PROX reaction. (380)
Pt–Sn/AC is active for CO oxidation when the AC support is treated with HNO3 prior to impregnation. The acid treatment creates an acidic surface that aids in the formation of Pt–Sn alloys. (383) The Pt–Sn catalyst is synthesized by sequential impregnation with high temperature reduction at 673 K. Aksoylu et al. have proposed that sequential impregnation leads to higher activity because less Pt is alloyed with Sn, making more Pt sites available for CO oxidation. (382) Quantum calculations by Gülmen et al. on Pt–Sn surfaces show that Pt–Sn bimetallic particles adsorb CO more weakly than Pt alone. The studies also indicate that Sn present in the subsurface configuration strengthens CO adsorption, while neighboring Sn on the surface destabilizes CO adsorption. (399)
Pt–Mn/γ-Al2O3 with different loadings of Mn is active for partial oxidation of CO. TPR results indicate that Pt promotes the reduction of Mn to a greater extent and at lower temperatures than monometallic Mn. Catalysts with low Mn content show no improvement in catalytic activity, but CO oxidation activity increases dramatically in catalysts with compositions of Mn above 8 wt %. In the presence of CO2, catalytic activity increases and CO conversion reaches 100% for the 15 wt % Mn, Pt–Mn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. The addition of H2O to the feed stream significantly decreases catalytic activity, possibly due to steam poisoning of oxygen vacancies in MnOx. (384)
Other metals, such as Pd, (381) Ru, (400) and Re, (385) are active when alloyed with Pt for CO oxidation. Pt–Pd/CeO2, (381) Pt–Ru/SiO2, (400) and Pt–Re/SiO2 (385) all demonstrate enhanced PROX activity over the corresponding monometallic catalysts. For the latter catalyst, EXAFS analysis confirms the existence of Pt–Re bimetallic bonds. The synergistic effect occurs when the reduced Pt–Re bimetallic particles dissociate O2, which then spills over to the Pt particles to oxidize CO. (385)
4.4.2 Water Gas Shift Reaction
Water gas shift (WGS) is an important reaction typically used during and after reforming to increase the yield of H2. CO is oxidized by H2O to produce an additional mole of H2 with CO2 as a waste gas. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts are active for the WGS reaction and show enhanced activity when alloyed with Re, (386, 387) Co, (386) and Au. (388) The alloyed metal and dispersion have been found to play an important role in the activity of WGS. In comparing a series of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts over γ-Al2O3 and TiO2, catalysts containing Pt–Re and Pt–Co exhibit a higher WGS activity than Pt, but Pt–Mo, Pt–Sn, and Pt–Cu show a lower WGS activity. Reports by Choung et al. show that Pt–Re catalysts display higher activity because Re increases Pt dispersion on TiO2 and γ-Al2O3. (386) Sato et al. report that the WGS activity over Pt–Re/TiO2 exhibits a mild dependence on Re content and a strong dependence on reduction temperature. (387) Additional Re increases the amount of Re on the catalyst surface and leads to an increase in the rate of WGS. (387)
Although the metals used for WGS play an important role, the support often participates in the WGS chemistry. For example, adding Pt to a Au/CeO2 catalyst is much more active for WGS than either parent metal. The introduction of Pt to the Au catalyst leads to the formation of a partially oxidized gold species. The presence of Au and Pt also help keep ceria in a Ce3+ state, which creates oxygen vacancies and aids in the overall activity of the catalyst. (388)
Kugai et al. examine the enhancement of water gas shift by the addition of oxygen to the feed stream (OWGS). Pt–Cu/CeO2 exhibits higher OWGS activity than monometallic catalysts, but the higher activity is not as pronounced in traditional WGS. (389) The addition of oxygen to the reaction is suggested to both lower the CO surface coverage and increase the number of available surface sites to participate in the reaction. Another possible explanation is that supported Pt–Cu bimetallic catalysts are reduced more easily than the corresponding monometallic catalysts.
4.4.3 CH4 Conversion
The large abundance of natural gas makes methane an attractive feedstock for use in hydrogen production, in the synthesis of more complex molecules, and as a direct fuel. (289) Pt–Co catalysts have been shown to convert methane into C2+ products with higher conversion than the corresponding monometallic catalysts. (390) The enhanced activity of the bimetallic system can be explained by increased reducibility of Co and facilitated chain-growth by Co from partially dehydrogenated species produced on Pt. (390)
For CH4 to be used as a direct fuel, it must be fully combusted to CO2 and H2O to reduce environmental impacts, mainly because CH4 is a greenhouse gas that has an even greater global-warming potential than CO2. (401) Studies on catalytic combustion of CH4 over Pt–Pd catalysts show that the bimetallic outperforms monometallic Pd catalysts independent of the catalyst support. (392, 402) The metal particles in Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 consist of two phases: a PdO phase and a Pt and Pd alloy. (392, 402) Castellazzi et al. have found that the effect of Pt on PdO for CH4 combustion depends on several factors such as the extent of PdO bond formation and the strength of the Pd–support interaction. (403)
The recent discovery of large natural gas reservoirs has increased efforts in finding efficient processes to partially oxidize CH4 into CO and H2. Lanza et al. have found that Pt–Ru is an active metal combination for CH4 partial oxidation because Pt activates CH4 at low temperature and Ru is selective toward H2 and CO. The bimetallic catalyst begins to show oxidation activity at 823 K for Pt–Ru versus 903 K for the monometallic Ru catalyst. Above ∼800 K, syngas at a H2/CO ratio of 2 is produced as the favored product. (394, 395) DFT and experimental results show that Pt–Ru core–shell nanoparticles have a weaker CO binding energy than monometallic Pt nanoparticles, leading to lower CO coverage and higher activity. (156)
Pt–Ni (391) catalysts have also been evaluated for the partial oxidation of CH4. Small amounts of Pt are added to the Ni catalyst to reduce the extent of Ni oxidation. In this case, the high reducibility of Pt and the high activity of Ni are both utilized. Introduction of Pt to Ni catalysts by sequential impregnation enhances the catalytic performance by keeping Ni reduced in the presence of oxygen. (391) Characterization by TEM, TPR, EXAFS, and FTIR suggest that the catalysts prepared by sequential impregnation are mostly Pt-terminated while catalysts prepared by coimpregnation do not show increased amounts of surface Pt. The lack of surface Pt in the coimpregnated catalyst may lead to rapid deactivation from the oxidation of Ni, possibly explaining the decreased activity.
Steam reforming of CH4 encounters problems of coking and fast deactivation of catalysts. (404) However, research groups have found that Pt–Ni is an effective catalyst for reforming of CH4. (172, 358, 360-362) For example, Pt–Ni supported on MgAl2O4 exhibits self-activation and self-regeneration characteristics. (393) Without prereduction, the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst dissociates CH4 under reaction conditions to form hydrogen, which spills over and reduces other metallic particles on the catalyst. The addition of Pt to the Ni/MgAl2O4 catalyst also prevents deactivation by helping the alloyed Ni rereduce from Ni2+ to Ni0. At increased Ni loading the self-activation and self-regeneration characteristics are no longer present. (393)
Dry reforming of methane is an attractive process because it utilizes two abundant, cheap compounds as a hydrogen source; however, the process requires high temperatures, and the catalyst deactivates quickly due to coking. Pinheiro et al. show that Pt–Ni supported on polytype A of beta-zeolite (BEA) zeolites has superior activity and stability for dry reforming of methane, compared with γ-Al2O3 and AC supports, due to its high resistance to coking. (359) These findings are confirmed by Arishtirova et al., who find that the addition of Pt to Ni catalysts supported on a NaZSM-5 zeolite leads to better reducibility of the catalyst, higher Ni dispersion, and increased activity and stability for CH4 reforming by CO2. (357) In addition, Pt–Re (345) supported on ceria–zirconia mixed oxides shows enhanced dry reforming activity. The Pt–Re interaction reduces coke deposition, improves Pt dispersion, and significantly enhances selectivity and stability, while oxygen exchange of the reactants is facilitated by the reducible support.
4.5 Brief Summary of Pt-Based Bimetallic Electrocatalysts
Pt-based bimetallic catalysts are widely utilized for both anodic and cathodic reactions in low-temperature fuel cells, in particular PEMFCs. For example, Pt–Ru and Pt–Rh based catalysts are promising anode catalysts for the electrooxidation of methanol (405) and ethanol, (406) respectively. Pt–3d alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Similar to that described for the hydrogenation reaction in section 4.1, the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt structures are preferred for the ORR reaction due to optimized binding with atomic oxygen and hydroxyl groups. One of the challenges is to prevent the segregation of subsurface 3d metals to the surface, which is thermodynamically favorable in the presence of adsorbed oxygen, as described in section 3.1. The topic of electrocatalysts is beyond the scope of the current review; however, the basic principles, synthesis methods, and characterization techniques in the current review share many common themes with Pt-based bimetallic electrocatalysts. Interested readers can refer to several recent reviews on bimetallic electrocatalysts. (405, 407, 408)
4.6 Brief Summary of Trimetallic Catalysts
Some recent studies show that trimetallic catalysts exhibit better performance than both monometallic and bimetallic systems. For example, Epron et al. (409) have studied n-heptane reforming on Pt–Sn and Pt–Ir–Sn/Al2O3 catalysts and find that the addition of Sn to the bimetallic Pt–Ir increases the stability of the catalysts and also the selectivity toward toluene. Compared with Pt–Sn bimetallic catalysts, less Sn is needed in Pt–Ir–Sn trimetallic catalyst to obtain the same toluene yield. Aranishi et al. (410) have synthesized the Au/Co/Fe triple-layered core–shell nanoparticles that exhibit much higher catalytic activities for hydrolytic dehydrogenation of ammonia borane than the corresponding monometallic (Au, Co, Fe) or bimetallic (AuCo, AuFe, CoFe) catalysts. Pd/Ag/Rh trimetallic nanoparticles have been synthesized and exhibit high hydrogenation activity of methyl acrylate at an atomic composition of Pd/Ag/Rh = 1/2/13.5 and an average diameter of 2.2 nm. (411) The mechanism of the promoted reactivity in trimetallic catalysts has also been investigated. For example, Fang et al (412) have studied the electrooxidation of formic acid on Au@Pd@Pt NPs and find a synergistic effect between the three different nanostructure components (sphere, shell, and islands). Using FePtAu nanoparticles as an example, Zhang et al. (413) demonstrate that the presence of Au in FePtAu facilitates FePt structure transformation from chemically disordered face-centered cubic (fcc) structure to chemically ordered face-centered tetragonal (fct) structure.
5 Conclusions and Future Research Opportunities
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The examples in the current review illustrate the unique catalytic properties of bimetallic surfaces and catalysts. Several examples, such as the hydrogenation of C═C and C═O bonds over Pt–3d bimetallic materials, also demonstrate a strong correlation between model surfaces and supported catalysts, showing the promise of designing catalysts using first principles on model surfaces. The main reason for such strong correlations is that the desirable bimetallic structures for hydrogenation reactions, with subsurface 3d atoms underneath the surface Pt layer, are thermodynamically stable both in UHV environment and under hydrogenation reaction conditions.
In comparison, for other types of reactions, such as dehydrogenation and reforming, the desirable Pt–3d bimetallic structures should be the 3d-terminated surfaces. However, it is less clear whether these structures are present under dehydrogenation and reforming reaction conditions. Similarly, more studies are needed to determine the structures and their stability in other Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Such understanding is critical in extending the design of bimetallic catalysts from hydrogenation to other types of reactions. Below are some opportunities for future research in the area of bimetallic catalysis:
(1) Characterization of bimetallic catalysts under in situ reaction conditions. Because bimetallic structures would most likely change during reactions, it is critical to identify the atomic arrangement of bimetallic catalysts under temperatures, pressures, and reaction media (vapor phase or aqueous phase) relevant to catalytic reactions. One promising in situ technique is EXAFS, which allows measurements of the coordination numbers of monometallic and bimetallic bonds under in situ conditions. Recently in situ EXAFS and XRD have been combined to determine the short-range bonding environment of metal catalysts and the long-range order of oxide supports, respectively, under reaction conditions. (414, 415) These techniques should provide important information on the bimetallic structures and their stability under reaction conditions, which would in turn provide critical input for constructing relevant model surfaces in DFT calculations and UHV studies. To truly achieve the rational design of catalysts from first principles, it is essential that the model systems are as close as possible to those under reaction conditions. This is especially true for bimetallic catalysts due to the adsorbate-induced segregation and diffusion of metal atoms.
(2) Synthesis of stable bimetallic structures. The prevention of metal segregation and diffusion is a challenge under reaction conditions. For example, for the Pt–3d bimetallic catalysts, ideally one would design Pt-terminated surfaces for hydrogenation reactions and 3d-terminated catalysts for reforming reactions. Although the synthesis of well-defined core–shell bimetallic catalysts has been demonstrated for Pt–3d bimetallic electrocatalysts, (407) it is unlikely that such well-defined core–shell structures, in particular the maintenance of Pt or 3d as the surface atoms, would survive the relatively harsh conditions of calcination and reduction treatment in typical heterogeneous catalysis. One possibility to prevent the metal movement is to increase the activation barriers of segregation/diffusion by anchoring one or both metal atoms by the catalyst supports, although the strong metal–support interaction might change the electronic and catalytic properties of the bimetallic catalysts.
(3) Metal carbides as substrates in bimetallic catalysts. Another possibility is to replace Pt with a metal-like substrate that prevents the diffusion of the 3d metals. For example, Ni-terminated Pt–Ni surfaces are identified as effective catalysts for the reforming of alcohols and polyols. However, under reduction conditions or higher temperatures the surface Ni atoms would diffuse into bulk Pt, losing the high reforming activity. Recently, tungsten carbide (WC) was utilized to replace Pt because WC often shows catalytic properties similar to Pt (416) and is an effective diffusion barrier layer for surface metal atoms. (417) A comparative DFT and UHV study confirms that monolayer Ni–Pt and Ni–WC surfaces show nearly identical reforming activity for ethanol. (261) A recent study also demonstrates that other carbides, including W2C and Mo2C, can be used to replace Pt to support monolayer metals. (418-421) Synthesis efforts to extend these model surfaces to powder catalysts will lead to the production of alternative bimetallic catalysts with higher stability and lower cost.
(4) Correlation between model systems and catalytic reactions through theory. In addition to experimental efforts, calculations through multiscale modeling offer additional opportunities to correlate results on model surfaces to catalytic performance over supported catalysts. For example, recently Vlachos and co-workers have demonstrated the feasibility of creating activity maps to predict catalytic activity and selectivity of several Pt-based bimetallic catalysts using a combination of DFT calculations, linear energy correlations, and microkinetic modeling. (252, 422, 423) These types of calculations, coupled with parallel experimental efforts, will offer fruitful opportunities for the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with desirable activity, selectivity, and stability.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Jingguang G. Chen - Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, Department of Chemical and Bimolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19716, United States;  Department of Chemical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, United States;  Chemistry Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United States;  Email: jgchen@udel.edu
Authors
Weiting Yu - Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, Department of Chemical and Bimolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19716, United States
Marc D. Porosoff - Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, Department of Chemical and Bimolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19716, United States
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Biographies
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Weiting Yu
Weiting Yu received her bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from Zhejiang University in 2008. She joined the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware the following fall and is currently in her fourth year. She is co-advised by Dr. Jingguang G. Chen and Dr. Mark A. Barteau. Her thesis is exploring catalytic conversion of biomass derivatives with topics of interest including catalysis, surface science, and renewable energy such as biomass.
Marc D. Porosoff
Marc Porosoff received his B.S. in 2009 and M.S. in 2010, both in Chemical Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University. He is currently working on his Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware. His research interests relate to alternative energy technologies through applications of supported bimetallic catalysts.
Jingguang G. Chen
Dr. Jingguang Chen is a professor of Chemical Engineering at Columbia University. He started his career at the Exxon Corporate Research Laboratories before joining the faculty at the University of Delaware. His current research activities include experimental and theoretical studies aimed at the utilization of carbide and bimetallic materials in catalysis and electrocatalysis.
Acknowledgment
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The authors acknowledge support from the Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, an Energy Frontier Research Center funded by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences under Award Number DE-SC0001004.
List of Abbreviations
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
ΔΦ work-function change
2D 2-dimensional
3D 3-dimensional
3d 3d-metal
AAS atomic absorption spectroscopy
AC activated carbon
AES Auger electron spectroscopy
AFM atomic force microscopy
ALISS alkali ion scattering spectroscopy
ATR-IR attenuated total reflectance infrared
BEP Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi
BF bright field
BFS Bozzolo, Ferrante, and Smith
CAICISS coaxial impact collision ion scattering spectroscopy
CNF carbon nanofibers
CNT carbon nanotubes
CO carbon monoxide
colloid colloidal synthesis
core–shell core–shell synthesis
CUF coordinatively unsaturated ferrous
CV cyclic voltammetry
DF dark field
DFT density functional theory
DRIFTS diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy
EDS energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy
Eseg segregation energy
EXAFS extended X-ray absorption fine structure
FEM field emission microscopy
FTIR Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy
FTIRAS Fourier transform infrared absorption–reflection (FTIRA) spectroscopy
HAADF high annular dark field
HAS helium atom scattering
HBE hydrogen-binding energy
HDO hydrodeoxygenation
HREELS high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy
ICP-AES/OES inductively coupled plasma atomic/optical emission spectroscopy
IR infrared
IRAS infrared reflection absorption spectroscopy
IS ionization spectroscopy
KMCS kinetic Monte Carlo simulation
LEED low-energy electron diffraction
LEEM low-energy electron microscopy
LEIS low-energy ion scattering
MA maleic anhydride
MAPR microwave-assisted polyol reduction
MCS Monte Carlo simulations
MD molecular dynamics
MEIS medium-energy ion scattering
NEXAFS near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure
ORR oxygen reduction reaction
OWGS oxygen-enhanced water gas shift
PAA polyacrylic acid
PAX photoemission of adsorbed xenon
PEMFCs proton-exchange membrane fuel cells
PES photoemission spectroscopy
PROX preferential oxidation
PVD physical vapor deposition
SEM scanning electron microscopy
SMOKE surface magneto-optical Kerr effect
STEM scanning transmission electron microscopy
STM scanning tunneling microscopy
SXPS soft X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
SXS surface X-ray scattering
TCD thermal conductivity detector
TDS thermal desorption spectroscopy
TEAS thermal energy He atom scattering
TEM transmission electron microscopy
TGA/DTA thermogravimetric analysis/differential thermal analysis
TOF turnover frequency
TOF-SIMS time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy
TPD temperature-programmed desorption
TPO temperature-programmed oxidation
TPR temperature-programmed reduction
UHV ultrahigh vacuum
UPS ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy
UV–vis DRS ultraviolet–visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy
WC tungsten monocarbide or tungsten carbide
WGS water gas shift
XAES X-ray excited Auger electron spectroscopy
XANES X-ray absorption near-edge structure
XAS X-ray absorption spectroscopy
XPS X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
XRD X-ray diffraction
YSZ yttria-stabilized zirconia
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 423 other publications.
1Sinfelt, J. H. Acc. Chem. Res. 1977, 10, 15[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
2Sinfelt, J. H. Bimetallic Catalysts: Discoveries, Concepts and Applications; John Wiley and Sons: New York, 1983.Google Scholar
3Sinfelt, J. H.; Barnett, A. E.; Dembinski, G. W. U.S. patent, US3442973, 1969.Google Scholar
4Bartholomew, C. H.; Farrauto, R. J. Fundamentals of industrial catalytic processes; Wiley Interscience: Hoboken, NJ, 2006.Google Scholar
5Stamenkovic, V. R.; Fowler, B.; Mun, B. S.; Wang, G. F.; Ross, P. N.; Lucas, C. A.; Markovic, N. M. Science 2007, 315, 493[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
6Zhang, J.; Sasaki, K.; Sutter, E.; Adzic, R. R. Science 2007, 315, 220[Crossref], Google Scholar
7Campbell, C. T. Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1990, 41, 775[Crossref], Google Scholar
8Rodriguez, J. A. Surf. Sci. Rep. 1996, 24, 225[Crossref], Google Scholar
9Madey, T. E.; Nien, C.-H.; Pelhos, K.; Kolodziej, J. J.; Abdelrehim, I. M.; Tao, H.-S. Surf. Sci. 1999, 438, 191[Crossref], Google Scholar
10Chen, J. G.; Menning, C. A.; Zellner, M. B. Surf. Sci. Rep. 2008, 63, 201[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Goodman, D. W. Ultramicroscopy 1990, 34, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
12Greeley, J.; Mavrikakis, M. Nat. Mater. 2004, 3, 810[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
13Hammer, B.; Morikawa, Y.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996, 76, 2141[Crossref], Google Scholar
14Hansgen, D. A.; Vlachos, D. G.; Chen, J. G. Nat. Chem. 2011, 2, 484[Crossref], Google Scholar
15Hwu, H. H.; Eng, J.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 702[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
16Kitchin, J. R.; Norskov, J. K.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2004, 93Google Scholar
17Murillo, L. E.; Goda, A. M.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 7101[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
18Neurock, M.; van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 11127[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
19Pallassana, V.; Neurock, M.; Hansen, L. B.; Hammer, B.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1999, 60, 6146[Crossref], Google Scholar
20Rodriguez, J. A.; Goodman, D. W. J. Phys. Chem. 1991, 95, 4196[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
21Rodriguez, J. A.; Goodman, D. W. Science 1992, 257, 897[Crossref], Google Scholar
22Salciccioli, M.; Yu, W. T.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 7996[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
23Yu, W. T.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 20528[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
24Jiang, H. L.; Xu, Q. J. Mater. Chem. 2011, 21, 13705[Crossref], Google Scholar
25Wang, A. Q.; Chang, C. M.; Mou, C. Y. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 18860[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
26Zhang, Y. W.; Huang, W. Y.; Habas, S. E.; Kuhn, J. N.; Grass, M. E.; Yamada, Y.; Yang, P.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 12092[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
27Humbert, M. P.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2008, 257, 297[Crossref], Google Scholar
28Kitchin, J. R.; Khan, N. A.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G.; Yakshinskiy, B.; Madey, T. E. Surf. Sci. 2003, 544, 295[Crossref], Google Scholar
29O’Connor, D. J.; Sexton, B. A.; Smart, R. C. Surface analysis methods in materials science, 2nd ed.; Springer: New York, 2003.[Crossref], Google Scholar
30Masel, R. I. Principles of adsorption and reaction on solid surfaces; John Wiley and Sons, Inc.: New York, 1996.Google Scholar
31Pendry, J. B. Low Energy Electron Diffraction; Academic Press: New York, 1974.Google Scholar
32Gauthier, Y. Surf. Rev. Lett. 1996, 3, 1663[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128Google Scholar
34Cabeza, G. F.; Castellani, N. J.; Legare, P. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 2006, 67, 690[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
35Goyhenex, C.; Bulou, H.; Deville, J. P.; Treglia, G. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1999, 60, 2781[Crossref], Google Scholar
36Walker, M.; Parkinson, C. R.; Draxler, M.; McConville, C. F. Surf. Sci. 2005, 584, 153[Crossref], Google Scholar
37AlShamaileh, E.; Younis, H.; Barnes, C. J.; Pussi, K.; Lindroos, M. Surf. Sci. 2002, 515, 94[Crossref], Google Scholar
38AlShamaileh, E.; Barnes, C. J.; Wander, A. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. 2003, 15, 1879[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
39AlShamaileh, E.; Pussi, K.; Younis, H.; Barnes, C.; Lindroos, M. Surf. Sci. 2004, 548, 231[Crossref], Google Scholar
40Belkhou, R.; Thiele, J.; Guillot, C. Surf. Sci. 1997, 377, 948[Crossref], Google Scholar
41Reilly, J. P.; O’Connell, D.; Barnes, C. J. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. 1999, 11, 8417[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
42Demarco, G.; Garces, J. E.; Bozzolo, G. Surf. Sci. 2003, 526, 309[Crossref], Google Scholar
43Christensen, A.; Ruban, A.; Stoltze, P.; Jacobsen, K. W.; Skriver, H. L.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. B 1997, 56, 5822[Crossref], Google Scholar
44Boo, J. B.; Lee, S. B.; Linke, R.; Becker, C.; Schroder, U.; Wandelt, K. J. Korean Phys. Soc. 1999, 35, S582Google Scholar
45Boo, J. H.; Lee, S. Y.; Lee, S. B.; Kwak, H. T.; Schroder, U.; Linke, R.; Wandelt, K. J. Korean Phys. Soc. 1999, 35, S554Google Scholar
46Barrett, N. T.; Belkhou, R.; Thiele, J.; Guillot, C. Surf. Sci. 1995, 333, 776[Crossref], Google Scholar
47Shen, Y. G.; O’Connor, D. J.; MacDonald, R. J. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. B 1998, 135, 361[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
48Dastoor, P. C.; O’Connor, D. J.; MacLaren, D. A.; Allison, W.; Noakes, T. C. Q.; Bailey, P. Surf. Sci. 2005, 588, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
49Shen, Y. G.; Oconnor, D. J.; King, B. V.; MacDonald, R. J. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. B 1996, 115, 191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
50Shen, Y. G.; Oconnor, D. J.; Wandelt, K.; MacDonald, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1996, 358, 921[Crossref], Google Scholar
51Sadek, M. M.; Wang, L. C. J. Phys. Chem. A 2006, 110, 14036[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
52Egawa, C.; Endo, S.; Iwai, H.; Oki, S. Surf. Sci. 2001, 474, 14[Crossref], Google Scholar
53Khan, N. A.; Zellner, M. B.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2004, 556, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
54Khan, N. A.; Zellner, M. B.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Lett. 2004, 95, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
55Castellani, N. J.; Legare, P.; Demangeat, C.; Pick, S. Surf. Sci. 1996, 352–354, 148[Crossref], Google Scholar
56Radosavkic, D.; Belkhou, R.; Thiele, J.; Barrett, N.; Guillot, C. J. Phys. IV 1996, 6, 201Google Scholar
57Radosavkic, D.; Thiele, J.; Barrett, N.; Guillot, C.; Belkhou, R. Surf. Sci. 1997, 377, 168[Crossref], Google Scholar
58Wilson, K.; Brake, J.; Lee, A. F.; Lambert, R. M. Surf. Sci. 1997, 387, 257[Crossref], Google Scholar
59Vermang, B.; Juel, M.; Raaen, S. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 2006, 73Google Scholar
60Khan, N. A.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 15748[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
61Tsay, J. S.; Shern, C. S. Surf. Sci. 1998, 396, 313[Crossref], Google Scholar
62Shern, C. S.; Tsay, J. S.; Her, H. Y.; Wu, Y. E.; Chen, R. H. Surf. Sci. 1999, 429, L497[Crossref], Google Scholar
63Tsay, J. S.; Chern, C. S. Surf. Sci. 1998, 396, 319[Crossref], Google Scholar
64Menning, C. A.; Hwu, H. H.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 15471[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
65Lundgren, E.; Leonardelli, G.; Schmid, M.; Varga, P. Surf. Sci. 2002, 498, 257[Crossref], Google Scholar
66Atrei, A.; Bardi, U.; Galeotti, M.; Rovida, G.; Torrini, M.; Zanazzi, E. Surf. Sci. 1995, 339, 323[Crossref], Google Scholar
67Lamas, E. J.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2006, 2, 1388[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
68Kitchin, J. R.; Norskov, J. K.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 120, 10240[Crossref], Google Scholar
69Kim, J.; Lee, J. W.; Jeong, J. R.; Shin, S. C.; Ha, Y. H.; Park, Y.; Moon, D. W. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 2002, 65Google Scholar
70Moon, D. W.; Ha, Y. H.; Park, Y.; Lee, J. W.; Kim, J.; Shin, S. C. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2001, 79, 503[Crossref], Google Scholar
71Vasylyev, M. A.; Tinkov, V. A.; Blaschuk, A. G.; Luyten, J.; Creemers, C. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2006, 253, 1081[Crossref], Google Scholar
72Radnik, J.; Wagner, B. D.; Oster, K.; Wandelt, K. Surf. Sci. 1996, 358, 943[Crossref], Google Scholar
73Holst, B.; Nohlen, M.; Wandelt, K.; Allison, W. Surf. Sci. 1997, 377–379, 891[Crossref], Google Scholar
74Colen, R. E. R.; Kolodziejczyk, M.; Delmon, B.; Block, J. H. Surf. Sci. 1998, 412–413, 447[Crossref], Google Scholar
75Tsay, J. S.; Mangen, T.; Wandelt, K. Thin Solid Films 2001, 397, 152[Crossref], Google Scholar
76O’Connor, D. J.; MacLaren, D. A.; Noakes, T. C. Q.; Bailey, P.; Allison, W.; Dastoor, P. C. Vacuum 2004, 73, 115[Crossref], Google Scholar
77Hamad, B. A.; Khalifeh, J. M.; Demangeat, C. Surf. Sci. 2003, 542, 230[Crossref], Google Scholar
78Zhang, L. P.; van Ek, J.; Diebold, U. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1998, 57, R4285[Crossref], Google Scholar
79Bastl, Z.; Pick, S. Surf. Sci. 2004, 566–568, 832[Crossref], Google Scholar
80Davis, D. J.; Kyriakou, G.; Lambert, R. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 11958[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
81Jerdev, D. I.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2002, 513, L391[Crossref], Google Scholar
82Lee, T. Y.; Sarbach, S.; Kuhnke, K.; Kern, K. Surf. Sci. 2006, 600, 3266[Crossref], Google Scholar
83Ramstad, A.; Raaen, S. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1999, 59, 15935[Crossref], Google Scholar
84Ramstad, A.; Raaen, S.; Barrett, N. Surf. Sci. 2000, 448, 179[Crossref], Google Scholar
85Yeh, C.-C.; Lai, Y.-H.; Chu, W.-Y.; Yeh, C.-T.; Hung, W.-H. Surf. Sci. 2004, 565, 81[Crossref], Google Scholar
86Bassett, D. W. Surf. Sci. 1995, 325, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
87Pourovskii, L. V.; Ruban, A. V.; Abrikosov, I. A.; Vekilov, Y. K.; Johansson, B. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 2001, 6403Google Scholar
88Khan, N. A.; Hwu, H. H.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2002, 205, 259[Crossref], Google Scholar
89Fruhberger, B.; Eng, J.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Lett. 1997, 45, 85[Crossref], Google Scholar
90Su, C. W.; Ho, H. Y.; Shern, C. S.; Chen, R. H. Surf. Sci. 2002, 499, 103[Crossref], Google Scholar
91Habar, M.; Stauffer, L.; Wille, L. T.; Dreysse, H. Surf. Sci. 2003, 532–535, 53[Crossref], Google Scholar
92Goda, A. M.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 11823[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
93Gambardella, P.; Kern, K. Surf. Sci. 2001, 475, L229[Crossref], Google Scholar
94Arenz, M.; Stamenkovic, V.; Ross, P. N.; Markovic, N. M. Electrochem. Commun. 2003, 5, 809[Crossref], Google Scholar
95Greeley, J.; Norskov, J. K.; Kibler, L. A.; El-Aziz, A. M.; Kolb, D. M. ChemPhysChem 2006, 7, 1032[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
96Lucas, C. A.; Markovic, N. M.; Ball, M.; Stamenkovic, V.; Climent, V.; Ross, P. N. Surf. Sci. 2001, 479, 241[Crossref], Google Scholar
97Tanaka, K.; Sasahara, A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 155, 13[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
98Lamouri, A.; Gofer, Y.; Luo, Y.; Chottiner, G. S.; Scherson, D. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 6172[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
99Yee, N.; Chottiner, G. S.; Scherson, D. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 5707[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
100Batzill, M.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2004, 553, 50[Crossref], Google Scholar
101Smadici, S.; Osgood, R. M. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 2005, 71, 165424.[Crossref], Google Scholar
102Miya, K.; Sinsarp, A.; Sasaki, M.; Yamamoto, S. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 2005, 44, L31[Crossref], Google Scholar
103Schuster, R.; Roder, H.; Bromann, K.; Brune, H.; Kern, K. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1996, 54, 13476[Crossref], Google Scholar
104Tsay, J. S.; Shern, C. S. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 1996, 14, 2522[Crossref], Google Scholar
105Tsay, J. S.; Shern, C. S. Chin. J. Phys. 1996, 34, 130[CAS], Google Scholar
106Tsay, J. S.; Yao, Y. D.; Shern, C. S. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1998, 58, 3609[Crossref], Google Scholar
107Batzill, M.; Beck, D.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2004, 558, 35[Crossref], Google Scholar
108Panja, C.; Saliba, N.; Koel, B. E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 3786[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
109Li, Y. D.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1995, 330, 193[Crossref], Google Scholar
110Zhao, H.; Koel, B. E. Langmuir 2005, 21, 971[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
111Voss, M. R.; Zhao, H.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2004, 560, 235[Crossref], Google Scholar
112Batzill, M.; Beck, D. E.; Jerdev, D.; Koel, B. E. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 2001, 19, 1953[Crossref], Google Scholar
113Hayden, B. E.; Rendall, M. E.; South, O. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2005, 228, 55[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
114Janin, E.; Bjorkqvist, M.; Grehk, T. M.; Gothelid, M.; Pradier, C. M.; Karlsson, U. O.; Rosengren, A. Appl. Surf. Sci. 1996, 99, 371[Crossref], Google Scholar
115Olivas, A.; Jerdev, D. I.; Koel, B. E. J. Catal. 2004, 222, 285[Crossref], Google Scholar
116Rodriguez, J. A.; Hrbek, J.; Kuhn, M.; Jirsak, T.; Chaturvedi, S.; Maiti, A. J. Chem. Phys. 2000, 113, 11284[Crossref], Google Scholar
117Fearon, J.; Watson, G. W. J. Mater. Chem. 2006, 16, 1989[Crossref], Google Scholar
118Kildemo, M.; Juel, M.; Raaen, S. Surf. Sci. 2005, 581, 133[Crossref], Google Scholar
119Oliver, C. P.; King, B. V.; O’Connor, D. J. Surf. Sci. 2004, 557, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
120Ramstad, A.; Strisland, F.; Ramsvik, T.; Borg, A. Surf. Sci. 2000, 458, 135[Crossref], Google Scholar
121Duisberg, M.; Drager, M.; Wandelt, K.; Gruber, E. L. D.; Schmid, M.; Varga, P. Surf. Sci. 1999, 435, 554[Crossref], Google Scholar
122Moest, B.; Wouda, P. T.; van der Gon, A. W. D.; Langelaar, M. C.; Brongersma, H. H.; Nieuwenhuys, B. E.; Boerma, D. O. Surf. Sci. 2001, 473, 159[Crossref], Google Scholar
123Schlapka, A.; Kasberger, U.; Menzel, D.; Jakob, P. Surf. Sci. 2002, 502–503, 129[Crossref], Google Scholar
124de Mongeot, F. B.; Scherer, M.; Gleich, B.; Kopatzki, E.; Behm, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1998, 411, 249[Crossref], Google Scholar
125Diemant, T.; Hager, T.; Hoster, H. E.; Rauscher, H.; Behm, R. J. Surf. Sci. 2003, 541, 137[Crossref], Google Scholar
126Kolaczkiewicz, J.; Bauer, E. Surf. Sci. 1996, 366, 71[Crossref], Google Scholar
127Zellner, M. B.; Goda, A. M.; Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2005, 583, 281[Crossref], Google Scholar
128Tao, H.-S.; Rowe, J. E.; Madey, T. E. Surf. Sci. 1998, 407, L640[Crossref], Google Scholar
129Tao, H.-S.; Nien, C.-H.; Madey, T. E.; Rowe, J. E.; Wertheim, G. K. Surf. Sci. 1996, 357–358, 55[Crossref], Google Scholar
130Pelhos, K.; Madey, T. E.; Hannon, J. B.; Kellogg, G. L. Surf. Rev. Lett. 1999, 6, 767[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
131Antczak, G.; Madey, T. E.; Blaszczyszyn, M.; Blaszczyszyn, R. Vacuum 2001, 63, 43[Crossref], Google Scholar
132Kolodziej, J. J.; Madey, T. E.; Keister, J. W.; Rowe, J. E. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 2000, 62, 5150[Crossref], Google Scholar
133Kolodziej, J. J.; Pelhos, K.; Abdelrehim, I. M.; Keister, J. W.; Rowe, J. E.; Madey, T. E. Prog. Surf. Sci. 1998, 59, 117[Crossref], Google Scholar
134Pelhos, K.; Abdelrehim, I. M.; Nien, C.-H.; Madey, T. E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 3708[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
135Block, J.; Kolodziej, J. J.; Rowe, J. E.; Madey, T. E.; Schroder, E. Thin Solid Films 2003, 428, 47[Crossref], Google Scholar
136Yang, X.; Koel, B. E.; Wang, H.; Chen, W.; Bartynski, R. A. ACS Nano 2012, 6, 1404[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
137Richardson, J. T. Principles of catalyst development; Plenum Press: New York, 1989.[Crossref], Google Scholar
138Albertazzi, S.; Busca, G.; Finocchio, E.; Glockler, R.; Vaccari, A. J. Catal. 2004, 223, 372[Crossref], Google Scholar
139Jongpatiwat, S.; Li, Z. R.; Resasco, D. E.; Alvarez, W. E.; Sughrue, E. L.; Dodwell, G. W. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 262, 241[Crossref], Google Scholar
140Plomp, A. J.; van Asten, D. M. P.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Maki-Arvela, P.; Murzin, D. Y.; de Jong, K. P.; Bitter, J. H. J. Catal. 2009, 263, 146[Crossref], Google Scholar
141Silvestre-Albero, J.; Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 292, 244[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
142Merlo, A. B.; Vetere, V.; Ruggera, J. F.; Casella, M. L. Catal. Commun. 2009, 10, 1665[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
143Lonergan, W. W.; Vlachos, D. G.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2010, 271, 239[Crossref], Google Scholar
144Serna, P.; Concepción, P.; Corma, A. J. Catal. 2009, 265, 19[Crossref], Google Scholar
145Chandler, B. D.; Pignolet, L. H. Catal. Today 2001, 65, 39[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
146Todorova, S.; Kadinov, G.; Tenchev, K.; Kalvachev, Y.; Kostov-Kytin, V. J. Mater. Sci. 2007, 42, 3315[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
147Chandler, B. D.; Schabel, A. B.; Pignolet, L. H. J. Catal. 2000, 193, 186[Crossref], Google Scholar
148Graf, I. V. G.; Bacon, J. W.; Consugar, M. B.; Curley, M. E.; Ito, L. N.; Pignolet, L. H. Inorg. Chem. 1996, 35, 689[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
149Koh, A. C. W.; Chen, L. W.; Leong, W. K.; Ang, T. P.; Johnson, B. F. G.; Khimyak, T.; Lin, J. Y. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2009, 34, 5691[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
150Margitfalvi, J. L.; Borbath, I.; Hegedus, M.; Tompos, A. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 229, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
151Ekou, T.; Vicente, A.; Lafaye, G.; Especel, C.; Marecot, P. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 314, 64[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
152Ekou, T.; Vicente, A.; Lafaye, G.; Especel, C.; Marecot, P. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 314, 73[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
153Schaal, M. T.; Pickerel, A. C.; Williams, C. T.; Monnier, J. R. J. Catal. 2008, 254, 131[Crossref], Google Scholar
154Veisz, B.; Tóth, L.; Teschner, D.; Paál, Z.; Győrffy, N.; Wild, U.; Schlögl, R. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2005, 238, 56[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
155Alayoglu, S.; Beaumont, S.; Zheng, F.; Pushkarev, V.; Zheng, H.; Iablokov, V.; Liu, Z.; Guo, J.; Kruse, N.; Somorjai, G. Top. Catal. 2011, 54, 778[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
156Nilekar, A. U.; Alayoglu, S.; Eichhorn, B.; Mavrikakis, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 7418[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
157Mayrhofer, K. J. J.; Juhart, V.; Hartl, K.; Hanzlik, M.; Arenz, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 3529[Crossref], Google Scholar
158Yang, X. J.; Cheng, F. Y.; Liang, J.; Tao, Z. L.; Chen, J. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2011, 36, 1984[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
159Zhang, X. B.; Yan, J. M.; Han, S.; Shioyama, H.; Xu, Q. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 2778[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
160Cheney, B. A. Masters thesis, University of Delaware, 2010.Google Scholar
161Zhang, X.; Tsang, K.-Y.; Chan, K.-Y. J. Electroanal. Chem. 2004, 573, 1Google Scholar
162Cheney, B. A.; Lauterbach, J. A.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 394, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
163Lang, H. F.; May, R. A.; Iversen, B. L.; Chandler, B. D. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 14832[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
164Scott, R. W. J.; Wilson, O. M.; Crooks, R. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 109, 692[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
165Albiter, M. A.; Morales, R.; Zaera, F. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 391, 386[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
166Guo, Z.; Chen, Y. T.; Li, L. S.; Wang, X. M.; Haller, G. L.; Yang, Y. H. J. Catal. 2010, 276, 314[Crossref], Google Scholar
167Li, H.; Yu, X.; Tu, S.-T.; Yan, J.; Wang, Z. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 387, 215[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
168Rousset, J. L.; Stievano, L.; Aires, F.; Geantet, C.; Renouprez, A. J.; Pellarin, M. J. Catal. 2001, 197, 335[Crossref], Google Scholar
169L’Vov, B. V. J. Anal. Chem. 2005, 60, 382[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
170 ICP Emission Spectrometry: A Practical Guide; Nolte, J., Ed.; Wiley-VCH: Morlenbach, 2003.Google Scholar
171Pawelec, B.; Damyanova, S.; Arishtirova, K.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Petrov, L. Appl. Catal., A 2007, 323, 188[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
172Özkara-Aydınoğlu, Ş.; Aksoylu, A. E. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2011, 36, 2950[Crossref], Google Scholar
173Ozkaya, D.; Zhou, W. Z.; Thomas, J. M.; Midgley, P.; Keast, V. J.; Hermans, S. Catal. Lett. 1999, 60, 113[Crossref], Google Scholar
174Gan, L.; Yu, R.; Luo, J.; Cheng, Z. Y.; Zhu, J. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2012, 3, 934[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
175Ciston, J.; Si, R.; Rodriguez, J. A.; Hanson, J. C.; Martinez-Arias, A.; Fernandez-Garcia, M.; Zhu, Y. M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 13851[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
176Williams, D. B.; Carter, C. B. Transmission electron microscopy; Springer: New York, 1996.[Crossref], Google Scholar
177Griffiths, P. R.; De Haseth, J. A. Fourier transform infrared spectrometry; Wiley: New York, 1986.Google Scholar
178Smith, B. C. Fundamentals of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, 1996.Google Scholar
179Ferri, D.; Burgi, T.; Baiker, A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 3187[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
180Burcham, L.; Deo, G.; Gao, X.; Wachs, I. Top. Catal. 2000, 11–12, 85[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
181Koningsberger, D. C.; Prins, R. X-ray absorption: principles, applications, techniques of EXAFS, SEXAFS, and XANES; Wiley: New York, 1988.Google Scholar
182Niemantsverdriet, J. W. Spectroscopy in catalysis: An introduction; VCH Weinheim: New York, 1995.Google Scholar
183Aksenov, V. L.; Kuzmin, A. Y.; Purans, J.; Tyutyunnikov, S. I. Phys. Part. Nucl. 2001, 32, 675[CAS], Google Scholar
184Aksenov, V. L.; Koval’chuk, M. V.; Kuz’min, A. Y.; Purans, Y.; Tyutyunnikov, S. I. Crystallogr. Rep. 2006, 51, 908[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
185Iwasawa, Y. X-ray absorption fine structure for catalysis and surfaces; World Scientific: Hackensack, NJ, 1986.Google Scholar
186Teo, B. K. EXAFS: Basic principles and data analysis; Springer-Verlag: Berlin/New York, 1986.[Crossref], Google Scholar
187Newville, M. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2001, 8, 322[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
188Ravel, B.; Newville, M. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2005, 12, 537[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
189Rehr, J. J.; Albers, R. C. Rev. Mod. Phys. 2000, 72, 621[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
190Grunwaldt, J. D.; Clausen, B. S. Top. Catal. 2002, 18, 37[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
191Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 4351[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
192Beale, A. M.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Jacques, S. D. M.; Leynaud, O.; O’Brien, M. G.; Meneau, F.; Nikitenko, S.; Bras, W.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 12386[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
193Nikitenko, S.; Beale, A. M.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Jacques, S. D. M.; Leynaud, O.; O’Brien, M. G.; Detollenaere, D.; Kaptein, R.; Weckhuysen, B. M.; Bras, W. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2008, 15, 632[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
194Bentrup, U. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2010, 39, 4718[Crossref], Google Scholar
195Toda, T.; Igarashi, H.; Watanabe, M. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1999, 460, 258[Crossref], Google Scholar
196Wan, L. J.; Moriyama, T.; Ito, M.; Uchida, H.; Watanabe, M. Chem. Commun. 2002, 58[Crossref], Google Scholar
197Watanabe, M. Electrochemistry 2000, 68, 941[Crossref], Google Scholar
198Ruban, A. V.; Skriver, H. L.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1999, 59, 15990[Crossref], Google Scholar
199Alden, M.; Abrikosov, I. A.; Johansson, B.; Rosengaard, N. M.; Skriver, H. L. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1994, 50, 5131[Crossref], Google Scholar
200Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2009, 130Google Scholar
201Callejas-Tovar, R.; Balbuena, P. B. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 3531[Crossref], Google Scholar
202Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. Top. Catal. 2010, 53, 338[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
203Wang, H.; Stamatakis, M.; Hansgen, D. A.; Caratzoulas, S.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 133Google Scholar
204Mun, B. S.; Rossi, M.; Ross, P. N. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129Google Scholar
205Duan, Z. Y.; Zhong, J.; Wang, G. F. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 133Google Scholar
206Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2010, 157, B959[Crossref], Google Scholar
207Ma, T.; Fu, Q.; Cui, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Wang, Z.; Tan, D.; Bao, X. Chin. J. Catal. 2010, 31, 24[Crossref], Google Scholar
208Ma, T.; Fu, Q.; Su, H.-Y.; Liu, H.-Y.; Cui, Y.; Wang, Z.; Mu, R.-T.; Li, W.-X.; Bao, X.-H. ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 1013[Crossref], Google Scholar
209Mu, R.; Fu, Q.; Liu, H.; Tan, D.; Zhai, R.; Bao, X. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2009, 255, 7296[Crossref], Google Scholar
210Andersson, K. J.; Calle-Vallejo, F.; Rossmeisl, J.; Chorkendorff, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 2404[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
211Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 349[Crossref], Google Scholar
212Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 14520[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
213Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 107[Crossref], Google Scholar
214Ma, Y.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2008, 4, 1991[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
215Escano, M. C. S.; Nguyen, T. Q.; Nakanishi, H.; Kasai, H. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 3415[Crossref], Google Scholar
216Ramirez-Caballero, G. E.; Balbuena, P. B. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2011, 507, 117[Crossref], Google Scholar
217Duan, Z. Y.; Wang, G. F. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2011, 23Google Scholar
218Mu, R. T.; Guo, X. G.; Fu, Q.; Bao, X. H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 20590[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
219Zhang, Y. H.; Duan, Z. Y.; Xiao, C.; Wang, G. F. Surf. Sci. 2011, 605, 1577[Crossref], Google Scholar
220Su, H. Y.; Gu, X. K.; Ma, X. F.; Zhao, Y. H.; Bao, X. H.; Li, W. X. Catal. Today 2011, 165, 89[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
221Huang, Y. W.; Chou, T. Y.; Yu, G. Y.; Lee, S. L. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 9105[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
222Bergbreiter, A.; Hoster, H. E.; Behm, R. J. ChemPhysChem 2011, 12, 1148[Crossref], Google Scholar
223Diemant, T.; Bergbreiter, A.; Bansmann, J.; Hoster, H. E.; Behm, R. J. ChemPhysChem 2010, 11, 3123[Crossref], Google Scholar
224Wei, G. F.; Liu, Z. P. Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 1268[Crossref], Google Scholar
225Tenney, S. A.; Ratliff, J. S.; Roberts, C. C.; He, W.; Ammal, S. C.; Heyden, A.; Chen, D. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 21652[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
226Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Power Sources 2010, 195, 3140[Crossref], Google Scholar
227Hirschl, R.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2003, 217, 354[Crossref], Google Scholar
228Murillo, L. E.; Khan, N. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2005, 594, 27[Crossref], Google Scholar
229Beccat, P.; Bertolini, J. C.; Gauthier, Y.; Massardier, J.; Ruiz, P. J. Catal. 1990, 126, 451[Crossref], Google Scholar
230Jerdev, D. I.; Olivas, A.; Koel, B. E. J. Catal. 2002, 205, 278[Crossref], Google Scholar
231Humbert, M. P.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 1262[Crossref], Google Scholar
232Khan, N. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 2003, 21, 1302[Crossref], Google Scholar
233Hirschl, R.; Eichler, A.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2004, 226, 273[Crossref], Google Scholar
234Zhao, H. B.; Koel, B. E. Catal. Lett. 2005, 99, 27[Crossref], Google Scholar
235Peck, J. W.; Mahon, D. I.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1998, 410, 200[Crossref], Google Scholar
236Zhao, H. B.; Koel, B. E. J. Catal. 2005, 234, 24[Crossref], Google Scholar
237Vigne, F.; Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Sautet, P.; Delbecq, F. J. Catal. 2010, 275, 129[Crossref], Google Scholar
238Lonergan, W. W.; Xing, X.; Zheng, R.; Qi, S.; Huang, B.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Today 2011, 160, 61[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
239Humbert, M. P.; Stottlemyer, A. L.; Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2011, 280, 96[Crossref], Google Scholar
240Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 919[Crossref], Google Scholar
241Murillo, L. E.; Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2009, 268, 335[Crossref], Google Scholar
242Medlin, J. W. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 1284[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
243Qi, S.; Yu, W.; Lonergan, W. W.; Yang, B.; Chen, J. G. ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 625[Crossref], Google Scholar
244Qi, S.; Yu, W.; Lonergan, W. W.; Yang, B.; Chen, J. G. Chin. J. Catal. 2010, 31, 955[Crossref], Google Scholar
245Zheng, R.; Humbert, M. P.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2011, 1, 638[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
246Zheng, R.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, J. G. ChemCatChem 2011, 3, 578[Crossref], Google Scholar
247Qi, S.; Cheney, B. A.; Zheng, R.; Lonergan, W. W.; Yu, W.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 393, 44[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
248Tsai, Y. L.; Xu, C.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1997, 385, 37[Crossref], Google Scholar
249Zhao, H. B.; Koel, B. E. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 18152[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
250Becker, C.; Delbecq, F.; Breitbach, J.; Hamm, G.; Franke, D.; Jager, F.; Wandelt, K. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 18960[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
251Ma, H. Y.; Wang, G. C. J. Catal. 2011, 281, 63[Crossref], Google Scholar
252Salciccioli, M.; Stamatakis, M.; Caratzoulas, S.; Vlachos, D. G. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2011, 66, 4319[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
253Hansgen, D. A.; Thomanek, L. M.; Chen, J. G.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 134Google Scholar
254Ren, H.; Humbert, M. P.; Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G.; Shu, Y.; Singh, U. G.; Cheng, W.-C. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 375, 303[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
255Panja, C.; Saliba, N.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1998, 395, 248[Crossref], Google Scholar
256Skoplyak, O.; Menning, C. A.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Top. Catal. 2008, 51, 49[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
257Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 3578[Crossref], Google Scholar
258Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 1686[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
259Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. ChemSusChem 2008, 1, 524[Crossref], Google Scholar
260Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Today 2009, 147, 150[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
261Ren, H.; Hansgen, D. A.; Stottlemyer, A. L.; Kelly, T. G.; Chen, J. G. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 390[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
262Stottlemyer, A. L.; Ren, H.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 2630[Crossref], Google Scholar
263Veltruska, K.; Cabala, M.; Libra, J.; Skala, T.; Tsud, N.; Matolin, V. Surf. Interface Anal. 2010, 42, 555[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
264Skoplyak, O.; Menning, C. A.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 114707[Crossref], Google Scholar
265Neurock, M.; Wasileski, S. A.; Mei, D. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2004, 59, 4703[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
266Meng, J. H.; Carl, A. M.; Zellner, M. B.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2010, 604, 1845[Crossref], Google Scholar
267Kieken, L. D.; Neurock, M.; Mei, D. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 109, 2234[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
268Kim, J.; Welch, L. A.; Olivas, A.; Podkolzin, S. G.; Koel, B. E. Langmuir 2010, 26, 16401[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
269Kim, J.; Fu, J.; Podkolzin, S. G.; Koel, B. E. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 17238[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
270Desai, S.; Neurock, M. Electrochim. Acta 2003, 48, 3759[Crossref], Google Scholar
271Su, H. Y.; Bao, X. H.; Li, W. X. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128Google Scholar
272Fu, Q.; Li, W. X.; Yao, Y. X.; Liu, H. Y.; Su, H. Y.; Ma, D.; Gu, X. K.; Chen, L. M.; Wang, Z.; Zhang, H.; Wang, B.; Bao, X. H. Science 2010, 328, 1141[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
273Mu, R.; Fu, Q.; Xu, H.; Zhang, H.; Huang, Y.; Jiang, Z.; Zhang, S.; Tan, D.; Bao, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 1978[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
274Gazdzicki, P.; Thussing, S.; Jakob, P. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 23013[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
275Kuhn, M.; Rodriguez, J. A. Catal. Lett. 1995, 32, 345[Crossref], Google Scholar
276Lonergan, W. W.; Wang, T. F.; Vlachos, D. G.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 408, 87[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
277Lu, S.; Lonergan, W. W.; Zhu, Y.; Xie, Y.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., B 2009, 91, 610[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
278Rynkowski, J.; Rajski, D.; Szyszka, I.; Grzechowiak, J. R. Catal. Today 2004, 90, 159[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
279Khan, N. A.; Murillo, L. E.; Shu, Y. Y.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Lett. 2005, 105, 233[Crossref], Google Scholar
280Lu, S. L.; Lonergan, W. W.; Bosco, J. P.; Wang, S. R.; Zhu, Y. X.; Xie, Y. C.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2008, 259, 260[Crossref], Google Scholar
281Sun, K.-Q.; Hong, Y.-C.; Zhang, G.-R.; Xu, B.-Q. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 1336[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
282Siepen, K.; Bonnemann, H.; Brijoux, W.; Rothe, J.; Hormes, J. Appl. Organomet. Chem. 2000, 14, 549[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
283Silvestre-Albero, J.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Anderson, J. A. J. Catal. 2004, 223, 179[Crossref], Google Scholar
284Homs, N.; Llorca, J.; de la Piscina, P. R.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Silvestre-Albero, J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2001, 3, 1782[Crossref], Google Scholar
285Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Duprez, D. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2007, 268, 227[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
286Siani, A.; Alexeev, O. S.; Lafaye, G.; Amiridis, M. D. J. Catal. 2009, 266, 26[Crossref], Google Scholar
287Rachmady, W.; Vannice, M. A. J. Catal. 2002, 209, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
288Crabb, E. M.; Marshall, R. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 217, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
289Gyorffy, N.; Paal, Z. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2008, 295, 24[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
290Burch, R.; Paun, C.; Cao, X. M.; Crawford, P.; Goodrich, P.; Hardacre, C.; Hu, P.; McLaughlin, L.; Sa, J.; Thompson, J. M. J. Catal. 2011, 283, 89[Crossref], Google Scholar
291Zheng, Y.; Wang, X. X.; Fu, X. Z.; Wei, K. M. Appl. Organomet. Chem. 2007, 21, 836[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
292Li, J.; Tian, W. P.; Shi, L. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 565[Crossref], Google Scholar
293Li, J.; Tian, W. P.; Wang, X.; Shi, L. Chem. Eng. J. 2011, 175, 417[Crossref], Google Scholar
294Guczi, L.; Bazin, D. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 188, 163[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
295Guczi, L.; Bazin, D.; Kovacs, I.; Borko, L.; Schay, Z.; Lynch, J.; Parent, P.; Lafon, C.; Stefler, G.; Koppany, Z.; Sajo, I. Top. Catal. 2002, 20, 129[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
296Choi, S. H.; Lee, J. S. J. Catal. 1997, 167, 364[Crossref], Google Scholar
297Ismagilov, Z. R.; Matus, E. V.; Yakutova, A. M.; Protasova, L. N.; Ismagilov, I. Z.; Kerzhentsev, M. A.; Rebrov, E. V.; Schouten, J. C. Catal. Today 2009, 147, S81[Crossref], Google Scholar
298Tsang, S. C.; Cailuo, N.; Oduro, W.; Kong, A. T. S.; Clifton, L.; Yu, K. M. K.; Thiebaut, B.; Cookson, J.; Bishop, P. ACS Nano 2008, 2, 2547[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
299Santori, G. F.; Casella, M. L.; Siri, G. J.; Aduriz, H. R.; Ferretti, O. A. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2002, 75, 225[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
300Castillejos, E.; Jahjah, M.; Favier, I.; Orejón, A.; Pradel, C.; Teuma, E.; Masdeu-Bultó, A. M.; Serp, P.; Gómez, M. ChemCatChem 2012, 4, 118[Crossref], Google Scholar
301Zheng, R.; Porosoff, M. D.; Weiner, J. L.; Lu, S.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2012, 419–420, 126[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
302Hammer, B.; Nørskov, J. K. Adv. Catal. 2000, 45, 71[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
303Shu, Y. Y.; Murillo, L. E.; Bosco, J. P.; Huang, W.; Frenkel, A. I.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 339, 169[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
304Sedlacek, J.; Hilaire, L.; Legare, P.; Maire, G. Surf. Sci. 1982, 115, 541[Crossref], Google Scholar
305Arenas-Alatorre, J.; Avalos-Borja, M.; Diaz, G. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2002, 189, 7[Crossref], Google Scholar
306Goda, A. M.; Neurock, M.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 2513[Crossref], Google Scholar
307Oxford, S. M.; Lee, P. L.; Chupas, P. J.; Chapman, K. W.; Kung, M. C.; Kung, H. H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 17085[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
308Borodzinki, A. Catal. Rev.–Sci. Eng. 2006, 48, 91[Crossref], Google Scholar
309Stanislaus, A.; Cooper, B. H. Catal. Rev.–Sci. Eng. 1994, 36, 75[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
310Lu, S. L.; Menning, C. A.; Zhu, Y. X.; Chen, J. G. ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 1763[Crossref], Google Scholar
311Kumbilieva, K.; Gaidai, N. A.; Nekrasov, N. V.; Petrov, L.; Lapidus, A. L. Chem. Eng. J. 2006, 120, 25[Crossref], Google Scholar
312Coq, B.; Figueras, F. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2001, 173, 117[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
313Babu, P. K.; Kim, H. S.; Chung, J. H.; Oldfield, E.; Wieckowski, A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 20228[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
314Do, P. T. M.; Foster, A. J.; Chen, J. G.; Lobo, R. F. Green Chem. 2012, 14, 1388[Crossref], Google Scholar
315Maki-Arvela, P.; Hajek, J.; Salmi, T.; Murzin, D. Y. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 292, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
316Nishimura, S. Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalytic Hydrogenation for Organic Synthesis; Wiley: New York, 2001.Google Scholar
317Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Vigne, F.; Sautet, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 1316[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
318Ji, N.; Zhang, T.; Zheng, M. Y.; Wang, A. Q.; Wang, H.; Wang, X. D.; Chen, J. G. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 8510[Crossref], Google Scholar
319Lim, K. H.; Mohammad, A. B.; Yudanov, I. V.; Neyman, K. M.; Bron, M.; Claus, P.; Rosch, N. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 13231[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
320Bus, E.; van Bokhoven, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 9761[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
321Mott, D.; Luo, J.; Njoki, P. N.; Lin, Y.; Wang, L. Y.; Zhong, C. J. Catal. Today 2007, 122, 378[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
322Alexeev, O. S.; Gates, B. C. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2003, 42, 1571[Crossref], Google Scholar
323Chantaravitoon, P.; Chavadej, S.; Schwank, J. Chem. Eng. J. 2004, 98, 99[Crossref], Google Scholar
324Mueller, S. G.; Stallbaumer, P. J.; Slade, D. A.; Stagg-Williams, S. M. Catal. Lett. 2005, 103, 69[Crossref], Google Scholar
325Tang, X. L.; Zhang, B. C.; Li, Y.; Xu, Y.; Xin, Q.; Shen, W. J. J. Mol. Catal. A:Chem. 2005, 235, 122[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
326Schaal, M. T.; Hyman, M. P.; Rangan, M.; Ma, S.; Williams, C. T.; Monnier, J. R.; Medlin, J. W. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 690[Crossref], Google Scholar
327Huang, Y. Y.; Sachtler, W. M. H. J. Catal. 1999, 188, 215[Crossref], Google Scholar
328Liu, M. H.; Yu, W. Y.; Liu, H. F.; Zheng, J. M. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1999, 214, 231[Crossref], Google Scholar
329Liu, X. M.; Chen, J. R.; Zhao, S. L.; Li, X. J. Chin. J. Catal. 2005, 26, 323Google Scholar
330Epron, F.; Gauthard, F.; Pineda, C.; Barbier, J. J. Catal. 2001, 198, 309[Crossref], Google Scholar
331Marchesini, F. A.; Irusta, S.; Querini, C.; Miro, E. Catal. Commun. 2008, 9, 1021[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
332Kaneko, S.; Arakawa, T.; Ohshima, M.-a.; Kurokawa, H.; Miura, H. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 356, 80[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
333Pakhomov, N. A. Kinet. Catal. 2001, 42, 334[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
334Singh, S. K.; Xu, Q. A. Inorg. Chem. 2010, 49, 6148[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
335Siri, G. J.; Ramallo-Lopez, J. M.; Casella, M. L.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Requejo, F. G.; Ferretti, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 278, 239[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
336Biniwale, R. B.; Kariya, N.; Ichikawa, M. Catal. Lett. 2005, 105, 83[Crossref], Google Scholar
337Bednarova, L.; Lyman, C. E.; Rytter, E.; Holmen, A. J. Catal. 2002, 211, 335[Crossref], Google Scholar
338Salmones, J.; Wang, J. A.; Galicia, J. A.; Aguilar-Rios, G. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2002, 184, 203[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
339Liu, C. K.; Zhu, Q.; Wu, Z. H.; Zhou, Z. H.; Bhargava, G. R.; Parasher, S.; Rueter, M.; Zhou, B.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 390, 19[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
340Keresszegi, C.; Mallat, T.; Grunwaldt, J. D.; Baiker, A. J. Catal. 2004, 225, 138[Crossref], Google Scholar
341Dietrich, H.; Jacobi, K.; Ertl, G. J. Chem. Phys. 1996, 105, 8944[Crossref], Google Scholar
342Cheekatamarla, P. K.; Lane, A. M. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2005, 30, 1277[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
343Cheekatamarla, P. K.; Lane, A. M. J. Power Sources 2006, 153, 157[Crossref], Google Scholar
344Ronning, M.; Gjervan, T.; Prestvik, R.; Nicholson, D. G.; Holmen, A. J. Catal. 2001, 204, 292[Crossref], Google Scholar
345Simson, A.; Farrauto, R.; Castaldi, M. Appl. Catal., B 2011, 106, 295[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
346Kaila, R. K.; Gutierrez, A.; Slioor, R.; Kemell, M.; Leskela, M.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., B 2008, 84, 223[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
347Yuan, L. X.; Chen, Y. Q.; Song, C. F.; Ye, T. Q.; Guo, Q. X.; Zhu, Q. S.; Torimoto, Y.; Li, Q. X. Chem. Commun. 2008, 5215[Crossref], Google Scholar
348Kunkes, E. L.; Simonetti, D. A.; Dumesic, J. A.; Pyrz, W. D.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G.; Buttrey, D. J. J. Catal. 2008, 260, 164[Crossref], Google Scholar
349Huber, G. W.; Shabaker, J. W.; Evans, S. T.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., B 2006, 62, 226[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
350Avci, A. K.; Trimm, D. L.; Aksoylu, A. E.; Onsan, Z. I. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 258, 235[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
351Tanksale, A.; Beltramini, J. N.; Dumesic, J. A.; Lu, G. Q. J. Catal. 2008, 258, 366[Crossref], Google Scholar
352Tanksale, A.; Zhou, C. H.; Beltramini, J. N.; Lu, G. Q. J. Inclusion Phenom. Macrocyclic Chem. 2009, 65, 83[Crossref], Google Scholar
353Croy, J. R.; Mostafa, S.; Hickman, L.; Heinrich, H.; Cuenya, B. R. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 350, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
354Miyao, T.; Yamauchi, M.; Narita, H.; Naito, S. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 299, 285[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
355Kunkes, E. L.; Soares, R. R.; Simonetti, D. A.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., B 2009, 90, 693[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
356Bianchi, C. L.; Canton, P.; Dimitratos, N.; Porta, F.; Prati, L. Catal. Today 2005, 102, 203[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
357Arishtirova, K.; Pawelec, B.; Nikolov, R. N.; Fierro, L. G.; Damyanova, S. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2007, 91, 241[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
358Mukainakano, Y.; Yoshida, K.; Kado, S.; Okumura, K.; Kunimori, K.; Tomishige, K. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2008, 63, 4891[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
359Pinheiro, A. N.; Valentini, A.; Sasaki, J. M.; Oliveira, A. C. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 355, 156[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
360Garcia-Dieguez, M.; Finocchio, E.; Larrubia, M. A.; Alemany, L. J.; Busca, G. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 11[Crossref], Google Scholar
361Garcia-Dieguez, M.; Pieta, I. S.; Herrera, M. C.; Larrubia, M. A.; Alemany, L. J. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 377, 191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
362Garcia-Dieguez, M.; Pieta, I. S.; Herrera, M. C.; Larrubia, M. A.; Alemany, L. J. J. Catal. 2010, 270, 136[Crossref], Google Scholar
363Tang, S.; Lin, J.; Tan, K. L. Surf. Interface Anal. 1999, 28, 155[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
364Kaila, R. K.; Gutierrez, A.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., B 2008, 84, 324[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
365Gutierrez, A.; Karinen, R.; Airaksinen, S.; Kaila, R.; Krause, A. O. I. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2011, 36, 8967[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
366Orucu, E.; Gokaliler, F.; Aksoylu, A. E.; Onsan, Z. I. Catal. Lett. 2008, 120, 198[Crossref], Google Scholar
367Soyal-Baltacıoğlu, F.; Aksoylu, A. E.; Onsan, Z. I. Catal. Today 2008, 138, 183[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
368Iriondo, A.; Cambra, J. F.; Barrio, V. L.; Guemez, M. B.; Arias, P. L.; Sanchez-Sanchez, M. C.; Navarro, R. M.; Fierro, J. L. G. Appl. Catal., B 2011, 106, 83[CAS], Google Scholar
369Akhter, S.; White, J. M. Surf. Sci. 1986, 167, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
370Diekhöner, L.; Butler, D. A.; Baurichter, A.; Luntz, A. C. Surf. Sci. 1998, 409, 384[Crossref], Google Scholar
371Gibson, K. D.; Dubois, L. H. Surf. Sci. 1990, 233, 59[Crossref], Google Scholar
372Anderson, J. A.; Fernandez-Garcia, M. Chem. Eng. Res. Des. 2000, 78, 935[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
373Ni, M.; Leung, D. Y. C.; Leung, M. K. H. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2007, 32, 3238[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
374Sheng, P. Y.; Chiu, W. W.; Yee, A.; Morrison, S. J.; Idriss, H. Catal. Today 2007, 129, 313[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
375Agrawal, R.; Singh, N. R.; Ribeiro, F. H.; Delgass, W. N. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2007, 104, 4828[Crossref], Google Scholar
376Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Seo, K. W.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Catal. Lett. 2006, 110, 275[Crossref], Google Scholar
377Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Seo, K. W.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Korean J. Chem. Eng. 2006, 23, 182[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
378Snytnikov, P. V.; Yusenko, K. V.; Korenev, S. V.; Shubin, Y. V.; Sobyanin, V. A. Kinet. Catal. 2007, 48, 276[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
379Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 734[Crossref], Google Scholar
380Komatsu, T.; Tamura, A. J. Catal. 2008, 258, 306[Crossref], Google Scholar
381Parinyaswan, A.; Pongstabodee, S.; Luengnaruemitchai, A. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2006, 31, 1942[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
382Aksoylu, A. E.; Freitas, M. M. A.; Figueiredo, J. L. Catal. Today 2000, 62, 337[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
383Caglayan, B. S.; Soykal, I. I.; Aksoylu, A. E. Appl. Catal., B 2011, 106, 540[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
384Ayastuy, J. L.; Gonzalez-Marcos, M. P.; Gonzalez-Velasco, J. R.; Gutierrez-Ortiz, M. A. Appl. Catal., B 2007, 70, 532[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
385Ebashi, T.; Ishida, Y.; Nakagawa, Y.; Ito, S.-i.; Kubota, T.; Tomishige, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 6518[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
386Choung, S. Y.; Ferrandon, M.; Krause, T. Catal. Today 2005, 99, 257[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
387Sato, Y.; Terada, K.; Hasegawa, S.; Miyao, T.; Naito, S. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 296, 80[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
388Yu, Q.; Chen, W.; Li, Y.; Jin, M.; Suo, Z. Catal. Today 2010, 158, 324[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
389Kugai, J.; Miller, J. T.; Guo, N.; Song, C. J. Catal. 2011, 277, 46[Crossref], Google Scholar
390Borko, L.; Guczi, L. Top. Catal. 2006, 39, 34[Crossref], Google Scholar
391Li, B. T.; Kado, S.; Mukainakano, Y.; Miyazawa, T.; Miyao, T.; Naito, S.; Okumura, K.; Kunimori, K.; Tomishige, K. J. Catal. 2007, 245, 144[Crossref], Google Scholar
392Persson, K.; Ersson, A.; Colussi, S.; Trovarelli, A.; Jaras, S. G. Appl. Catal., B 2006, 66, 175[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
393Horiuchi, C. M.; Rangan, M.; Israel, B. M.; Medlin, J. W. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 14900[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
394Lanza, R.; Canu, P.; Jaeras, S. G. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 348, 221[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
395Lanza, R.; Canu, P.; Jaras, S. G. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 375, 92[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
396Yao, Y.; Fu, Q.; Wang, Z.; Tan, D.; Bao, X. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 17069[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
397Zecchina, A.; Rivallan, M.; Berlier, G.; Lamberti, C.; Ricchiardi, G. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2007, 9, 3483[Crossref], Google Scholar
398Yin, J.; Wang, J.; Zhang, T.; Wang, X. Catal. Lett. 2008, 125, 76[Crossref], Google Scholar
399Gülmen, M. A.; Sumer, A.; Aksoylu, A. E. Surf. Sci. 2006, 600, 4909[Crossref], Google Scholar
400Chin, S. Y.; Alexeev, O. S.; Amiridis, M. D. J. Catal. 2006, 243, 329[Crossref], Google Scholar
401Jain, A. K.; Briegleb, B. P.; Minschwaner, K.; Wuebbles, D. J. J. Geophys. Res., [Atmos.] 2000, 105, 20773[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
402Persson, K.; Jansson, K.; Jaras, S. G. J. Catal. 2007, 245, 401[Crossref], Google Scholar
403Castellazzi, P.; Groppi, G.; Forzatti, P. Appl. Catal., B 2010, 95, 303[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
404Hou, Z. Y.; Yokota, O.; Tanaka, T.; Yashima, T. Catal. Lett. 2003, 89, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
405Zhao, X.; Yin, M.; Ma, L.; Liang, L.; Liu, C.; Liao, J.; Lu, T.; Xing, W. Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 2736[Crossref], Google Scholar
406Kowal, A.; Li, M.; Shao, M.; Sasaki, K.; Vukmirovic, M. B.; Zhang, J.; Marinkovic, N. S.; Liu, P.; Frenkel, A. I.; Adzic, R. R. Nat. Mater. 2009, 8, 325[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
407Strasser, P.; Koh, S.; Anniyev, T.; Greeley, J.; More, K.; Yu, C.; Liu, Z.; Kaya, S.; Nordlund, D.; Ogasawara, H.; Toney, M. F.; Nilsson, A. Nat. Chem. 2010, 2, 454[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
408Stephens, I. E. L.; Bondarenko, A. S.; Gronbjerg, U.; Rossmeisl, J.; Chorkendorff, I. Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 6744[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
409Epron, F.; Carnevillier, C.; Marecot, P. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 295, 157[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
410Aranishi, K.; Jiang, H. L.; Akita, T.; Haruta, M.; Xu, Q. Nano Res. 2011, 4, 1233[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
411Matsushita, T.; Shiraishi, Y.; Horiuchi, S.; Toshima, N. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 2007, 80, 1217[Crossref], Google Scholar
412Fang, P. P.; Duan, S.; Lin, X. D.; Anema, J. R.; Li, J. F.; Buriez, O.; Ding, Y.; Fan, F. R.; Wu, D. Y.; Ren, B.; Wang, Z. L.; Amatore, C.; Tian, Z. Q. Chem. Sci. 2011, 2, 531[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
413Zhang, S.; Guo, S. J.; Zhu, H. Y.; Su, D.; Sun, S. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 5060[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
414Frenkel, A. I.; Wang, Q.; Marinkovic, N.; Chen, J. G.; Barrio, L.; Si, R.; Lopez Camara, A.; Estrella, A. M.; Rodriguez, J. A.; Hanson, J. C. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 17884[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
415Chen, H.; Wen, W.; Wang, Q.; Hanson, J. C.; Muckerman, J. T.; Fujita, E.; Frenkel, A. I.; Rodriguez, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 3650[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
416Hwu, H. H.; Chen, J. G. Chem. Rev. 2005, 105, 185[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
417Gouy-Pailler, P.; Pauleau, Y. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 1993, 11, 96[Crossref], Google Scholar
418Esposito, D. V.; Hunt, S. T.; Kimmel, Y. C.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 3025[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
419Esposito, D. V.; Chen, J. G. Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 3900[Crossref], Google Scholar
420Hsu, I. J.; Kimmel, Y. C.; Jiang, X. G.; Willis, B. G.; Chen, J. G. Chem. Commun. 2012, 48, 1063[Crossref], Google Scholar
421Kelly, T. G.; Chen., J. G. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012.Google Scholar
422Salciccioli, M.; Chen, Y.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 20155[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
423Salciccioli, M.; Vlachos, D. G. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 1246[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
7
Mentioning
769
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 1025 publications.
Zhenhua Xie, Jingguang G. Chen. Bimetallic-Derived Catalytic Structures for CO2-Assisted Ethane Activation. Accounts of Chemical Research 2023, 56 (18) , 2447-2458. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.3c00348
Weerapat Li, Supphanat Anantachaisophon, Thanakrit Vachiraanun, Worachon Promchaisri, Pongpop Sangsawang, Pattarapon Tanalikhit, Somlak Ittisanronnachai, Thassanant Atithep, Passapan Sanguanchua, Arjaree Ratanasangsathien, Mathus Jirapunyawong, Siriporn Suntiworapong, Sakol Warintaraporn, Yutichai Mueanngern. Enhanced Antibacterial Activity at Ag–Cu Nanojunctions: Unveiling the Mechanism with Simple Surfaces of CuNPs-on-Ag Films. ACS Omega 2023, Article ASAP.
Emily K. Schroeder, Prasanna Dasari, Muhammad Amtiaz Nadeem, Dustin Fickel, Phillip Christopher. Controlled Pretreatment and Reconstruction of a Bimetallic Pt–Ir/Al2O3/ZSM-5 Catalyst for Increased Stability during Butane Hydrogenolysis. ACS Engineering Au 2023, Article ASAP.
Cheng Zhu, Samuel E. Hoff, Miryana Hémadi, Hendrik Heinz. Accurate and Ultrafast Simulation of Molecular Recognition and Assembly on Metal Surfaces in Four Dimensions. ACS Nano 2023, 17 (11) , 9938-9952. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c10953
Hongliu Wan, Lixiang Qian, Nengfeng Gong, Huaming Hou, Xiaomeng Dou, Lirong Zheng, Liang Zhang, Lichen Liu. Size-Dependent Structures and Catalytic Properties of Supported Bimetallic PtSn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation Reaction. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (11) , 7383-7394. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00548
Hui Guo, Tao-Tao Shi, Ji-Tian Chen, Zhao-Xu Chen. Theoretical Investigation of the Properties of Pd2Cu Intermetallics and CO2 Hydrogenation to Ethanol Catalyzed on Pd2Cu (110). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (21) , 10097-10106. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c01381
Tao-Tao Shi, Gao-Yong Liu, Zhao-Xu Chen. Machine Learning Prediction of CO Adsorption Energies and Properties of Layered Alloys Using an Improved Feature Selection Algorithm. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (20) , 9573-9583. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c09020
Lichen Liu, Avelino Corma. Bimetallic Sites for Catalysis: From Binuclear Metal Sites to Bimetallic Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (8) , 4855-4933. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00733
Yilang Liu, Xue Zong, Abhirup Patra, Stavros Caratzoulas, Dionisios G. Vlachos. Propane Dehydrogenation on PtxSny (x, y ≤ 4) Clusters on Al2O3(110). ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (5) , 2802-2812. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05671
Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Ethane Dehydrogenation over the Core–Shell Pt-Based Alloy Catalysts: Driven by Engineering the Shell Composition and Thickness. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (8) , 10679-10695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c21249
Dennis Johan Loevlie, Brenno Ferreira, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Demystifying the Chemical Ordering of Multimetallic Nanoparticles. Accounts of Chemical Research 2023, 56 (3) , 248-257. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.2c00646
Gabriele Scandura, Priyanka Kumari, Giovanni Palmisano, Georgios N. Karanikolos, Julius Orwa, Ludovic F. Dumée. Nanoporous Dealloyed Metal Materials Processing and Applications─A Review. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (4) , 1736-1763. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c03952
Hongjiao Li, Yunchang Liang, Wenbo Ju, Oliver Schneider, Ulrich Stimming. In Situ Monitoring of the Surface Evolution of a Silver Electrode from Polycrystalline to Well-Defined Structures. Langmuir 2022, 38 (48) , 14981-14987. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.2c02748
Paskalis Sahaya Murpin Kumar, Subramanian Arulmani, Hyoung-il Kim, Deepthi Koolath Ramakrishnan, Vinoth Kumar Ponnusamy, Umapada Pal, Siva Kumar Krishnan. An Efficient and Durable Electrocatalyst Based on Strongly Coupled Pt Nanoparticles on CeO2 Microspheres for CO-Resilient Methanol Oxidation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (44) , 18670-18682. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c05069
Hong Li, Xianxian Qin, Xia-Guang Zhang, Kun Jiang, Wen-Bin Cai. Boron-Doped Platinum-Group Metals in Electrocatalysis: A Perspective. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12750-12764. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04358
Qicheng Zhang, Danyun Xu, An Cai, Xuewen Hu, Xinzhe Li, Wenchao Peng, Yang Li, Fengbao Zhang, Xiaobin Fan. Chemoselective Hydrogenation of Nitro Compounds by MoS2 via Introduction of Independent Active Hydrogen-Donating Sites. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (19) , 12170-12178. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03130
Yeongjun Yoon, Hyo Min You, Hyung Jun Kim, Matthew T. Curnan, Kyeounghak Kim, Jeong Woo Han. Computational Catalyst Design for Dry Reforming of Methane: A Review. Energy & Fuels 2022, 36 (17) , 9844-9865. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.2c01776
Kazu Okumura, Hitomi Hoshi, Hikaru Iiyoshi, Hiromitsu Takaba. Formation of a Pt–MgO Solid Solution: Analysis by X-ray Absorption Fine Structure Spectroscopy. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (31) , 27458-27468. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c02486
Yang Liu, Maichong Xie, Nicholas Marcella, Alexandre C. Foucher, Eric A. Stach, Marc R. Knecht, Anatoly I. Frenkel. Z-Contrast Enhancement in Au–Pt Nanocatalysts by Correlative X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy and Electron Microscopy: Implications for Composition Determination. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2022, 5 (7) , 8775-8782. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c00393
Rajib Sarkar, Ahmed A. Farghaly, Indika U. Arachchige. Oxidative Self-Assembly of Au/Ag/Pt Alloy Nanoparticles into High-Surface Area, Mesoporous, and Conductive Aerogels for Methanol Electro-oxidation. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (13) , 5874-5887. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.2c00717
Wei Hong, William A. Swann, Vamakshi Yadav, Christina W. Li. Haptophilicity and Substrate-Directed Reactivity in Diastereoselective Heterogeneous Hydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (13) , 7643-7654. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c02028
Wenjuan Xue, Jiansong Wang, Hongliang Huang, Yanran Cui, Donghai Mei. CO Oxidation over HKUST-1 Catalysts: The Role of Defective Sites. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (23) , 9652-9664. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c01022
Chi-Kin J. Tsui, Ka-Ming Leung, Yee-Yan Tay, Changzhong Liao, Ching-Kit Ho, Hei-Tung Yau, Teddy Salim, Chi-Ying V. Li, Kwong-Yu Chan. Highly Durable Pt–Ru-Doped Ce0.9Zr0.1O2 as an Effective Dual Catalyst for Low-Temperature Simultaneous Propane and Carbon Monoxide Oxidation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (22) , 9334-9351. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c01012
Tanmayi Bathena, Truc Phung, Scott R. Svadlenak, Yu Liu, Lars C. Grabow, Konstantinos A. Goulas. Oxygenate Reactions over PdCu and PdAg Catalysts: Distinguishing Electronic and Geometric Effects on Reactivity and Selectivity. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5766-5775. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00561
Francisco Zaera. Designing Sites in Heterogeneous Catalysis: Are We Reaching Selectivities Competitive With Those of Homogeneous Catalysts?. Chemical Reviews 2022, 122 (9) , 8594-8757. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00905
Jennifer D. Lee, Jeffrey B. Miller, Anna V. Shneidman, Lixin Sun, Jason F. Weaver, Joanna Aizenberg, Juergen Biener, J. Anibal Boscoboinik, Alexandre C. Foucher, Anatoly I. Frenkel, Jessi E. S. van der Hoeven, Boris Kozinsky, Nicholas Marcella, Matthew M. Montemore, Hio Tong Ngan, Christopher R. O’Connor, Cameron J. Owen, Dario J. Stacchiola, Eric A. Stach, Robert J. Madix, Philippe Sautet, Cynthia M. Friend. Dilute Alloys Based on Au, Ag, or Cu for Efficient Catalysis: From Synthesis to Active Sites. Chemical Reviews 2022, 122 (9) , 8758-8808. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00967
Cameron L. Roman, Natalia da Silva Moura, Scott Wicker, Kerry M. Dooley, James A. Dorman. Induction Heating of Magnetically Susceptible Nanoparticles for Enhanced Hydrogenation of Oleic Acid. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2022, 5 (3) , 3676-3685. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.1c04351
Arunendu Das, Shyama Charan Mandal, Akhil S. Nair, Biswarup Pathak. Computational Screening of First-Row Transition-Metal Based Alloy Catalysts─Ligand Induced N2 Reduction Reaction Selectivity. ACS Physical Chemistry Au 2022, 2 (2) , 125-135. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphyschemau.1c00021
Changhao Xu, Yu Zhang, Qianchi Feng, Rongda Liang, Chuanshan Tian. Self-Suppression of the Giant Coherent Anti-Stokes Raman Scattering Background for Detection of Buried Interfaces with Submonolayer Sensitivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2022, 13 (6) , 1465-1472. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c00055
Hongbo Wu, Chang Liu, Wei Guo. Computational Screening of Bimetallic Catalysts: Application to Ammonia Decomposition. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (1) , 192-202. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c08091
Alexandre C. Foucher, Nicholas Marcella, Jennifer D. Lee, Daniel J. Rosen, Ryan Tappero, Christopher B. Murray, Anatoly I. Frenkel, Eric A. Stach. Structural and Valence State Modification of Cobalt in CoPt Nanocatalysts in Redox Conditions. ACS Nano 2021, 15 (12) , 20619-20632. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c09450
Pu Huang, Yafei Guo, Guodong Wang, Jun Yu, Chuanwen Zhao, Xinru Wang, Tao Wang. Insights into Nickel-Based Dual Function Materials for CO2 Sorption and Methanation: Effect of Reduction Temperature. Energy & Fuels 2021, 35 (24) , 20185-20196. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.1c03008
Jiajing Kou, Johnny Zhu Chen, Junxian Gao, Xiaoben Zhang, Jie Zhu, Arnab Ghosh, Wei Liu, A. Jeremy Kropf, Dmitry Zemlyanov, Rui Ma, Xinwen Guo, Abhaya K. Datye, Guanghui Zhang, Liejin Guo, Jeffrey T. Miller. Structural and Catalytic Properties of Isolated Pt2+ Sites in Platinum Phosphide (PtP2). ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13496-13509. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03970
Xiaoli Wang, Run Long. Thermal-Driven Dynamic Shape Change of Bimetallic Nanoparticles Extends Hot Electron Lifetime of Pt/MoS2 Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (30) , 7173-7179. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c01640
Maodi Wang, Miao Guo, Xiaomin Ren, Xin Liu, Qihua Yang. The Influence of Surface Structure of RhPt Bimetallic Nanoparticles on the Hydrogenation of Aromatic Compounds. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (28) , 15275-15282. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c03624
Biraj Jyoti Borah, Chiranjita Goswami, Yusuke Yamada, Kohei Tada, Shingo Tanaka, Pankaj Bharali. Pd2CuCo/C Hybrid with Nanoflower Morphology toward Oxygen Reduction and Formic Acid Oxidation Reactions: Experimental and Computational Studies. Energy & Fuels 2021, 35 (14) , 11515-11524. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.1c00487
Zhuolin Li, Fei Gao, Bin Zou, Zhengying Wu, Yangping Zhang, Yukou Du. Core@shell PtAuAg@PtAg Hollow Nanodendrites as Effective Electrocatalysts for Methanol and Ethylene Glycol Oxidation. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (13) , 9977-9986. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.1c01254
Tao Xiao, Peijian Yan, Kaijie Li, Caoping Yang, Hongbo Yu, Junyou Wang, Hongfeng Yin, Shenghu Zhou. Hollow Mesoporous Nanoreactors with Encaged PtSn Alloy Nanoparticles for Selective Hydrogenation of Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (17) , 6078-6088. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c00293
Rafael A. Vicente, Itamar T. Neckel, Subramanian K. R. S. Sankaranarayanan, José Solla-Gullon, Pablo S. Fernández. Bragg Coherent Diffraction Imaging for In Situ Studies in Electrocatalysis. ACS Nano 2021, 15 (4) , 6129-6146. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c01080
Jieli Wang, Xin Chang, Sai Chen, Guodong Sun, Xiaohong Zhou, Evgeny Vovk, Yong Yang, Wanyu Deng, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Rentao Mu, Chunlei Pei, Jinlong Gong. On the Role of Sn Segregation of Pt-Sn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (8) , 4401-4410. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c00639
Bofeng Zhang, Lirong Zheng, Ziwei Zhai, Guozhu Li, Guozhu Liu. Subsurface-Regulated PtGa Nanoparticles Confined in Silicalite-1 for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (14) , 16259-16266. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c22865
Binbin Cao, Lingjian Zeng, Haidong Liu, Jingrui Shang, Liang Wang, Jianping Lang, Xueqin Cao, Hongwei Gu. Synthesis of the Platinum Nanoribbons Regulated by Fluorine and Applications in Electrocatalysis. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (7) , 4366-4370. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.1c00231
Kunlong Liu, Ruixuan Qin, Nanfeng Zheng. Insights into the Interfacial Effects in Heterogeneous Metal Nanocatalysts toward Selective Hydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (12) , 4483-4499. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c13185
Chunyan Tu, Xiaowa Nie, Jingguang G. Chen. Insight into Acetic Acid Synthesis from the Reaction of CH4 and CO2. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (6) , 3384-3401. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05492
Juntian Niu, Yalan Wang, Shirley E. Liland, Samuel K. Regli, Jia Yang, Kumar R. Rout, Jun Luo, Magnus Rønning, Jingyu Ran, De Chen. Unraveling Enhanced Activity, Selectivity, and Coke Resistance of Pt–Ni Bimetallic Clusters in Dry Reforming. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 2398-2411. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04429
Junhong Fu, Jinhu Dong, Rui Si, Keju Sun, Junying Zhang, Mingrun Li, Nana Yu, Bingsen Zhang, Mark G. Humphrey, Qiang Fu, Jiahui Huang. Synergistic Effects for Enhanced Catalysis in a Dual Single-Atom Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 1952-1961. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05599
Ming Zhou, Can Li, Jiye Fang. Noble-Metal Based Random Alloy and Intermetallic Nanocrystals: Syntheses and Applications. Chemical Reviews 2021, 121 (2) , 736-795. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00436
Hao Lv, Ren Wei, Xuwen Guo, Lizhi Sun, Ben Liu. Synergistic Catalysis of Binary RuP Nanoclusters on Nitrogen-Functionalized Hollow Mesoporous Carbon in Hydrogen Production from the Hydrolysis of Ammonia Borane. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (1) , 696-703. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c03547
Joong Il Jake Choi, Taek-Seung Kim, Daeho Kim, Si Woo Lee, Jeong Young Park. Operando Surface Characterization on Catalytic and Energy Materials from Single Crystals to Nanoparticles. ACS Nano 2020, 14 (12) , 16392-16413. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c07549
Min Tang, Wentao Yuan, Yang Ou, Guanxing Li, Ruiyang You, Songda Li, Hangsheng Yang, Ze Zhang, Yong Wang. Recent Progresses on Structural Reconstruction of Nanosized Metal Catalysts via Controlled-Atmosphere Transmission Electron Microscopy: A Review. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (24) , 14419-14450. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03335
Lesli O. Mark, Wei Chen, Calley N. Eads, Deyu Lu, J. Anibal Boscoboinik, Dario Stacchiola, J. Will Medlin, Samuel A. Tenney. Confinement Effects on Furfuryl Alcohol Reactions over Porous Bilayer Silica-Modified Pd(111). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (46) , 25437-25446. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c09095
Caoxin Lin, Zhiqiao Huang, Zeyi Zhang, Tang Zeng, Runzhe Chen, Yangyang Tan, Wei Wu, Shichun Mu, Niancai Cheng. Structurally Ordered Pt3Co Nanoparticles Anchored on N-Doped Graphene for Highly Efficient Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2020, 8 (45) , 16938-16945. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c06547
Maria Chiara Spadaro, Jo J. L. Humphrey, Rongsheng Cai, Lidia Martínez, Sarah J. Haigh, Yves Huttel, Steve J. Spencer, Andrew J. Wain, Richard Palmer. Electrocatalytic Behavior of PtCu Clusters Produced by Nanoparticle Beam Deposition. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (43) , 23683-23689. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c06744
Sandip Kumar De, Sourabh Kumar, Sarmistha Ray, Subrata Mondal, Abhijit Roy, Gourab Bhattacharjee, Arpita Nandy, Anuradha Roy, Biswarup Pathak, Dulal Senapati. Au-Seeded Ag-Nanorod Networks for Electrocatalytic Sensing. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (10) , 9969-9983. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c01976
Zeyan Liu, Zipeng Zhao, Bosi Peng, Xiangfeng Duan, Yu Huang. Beyond Extended Surfaces: Understanding the Oxygen Reduction Reaction on Nanocatalysts. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (42) , 17812-17827. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c07696
Changlong Wang, Qi Wang, Fangyu Fu, Didier Astruc. Hydrogen Generation upon Nanocatalyzed Hydrolysis of Hydrogen-Rich Boron Derivatives: Recent Developments. Accounts of Chemical Research 2020, 53 (10) , 2483-2493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.0c00525
Manyu Chen, Yan Cui, Wei Qian, Qingpo Peng, Jiajia Wang, Honghui Gong, Jian Fang, Sheng Dai, Zhenshan Hou. Thermoregulated Ionic Liquid-Stabilizing Ru/CoO Nanocomposites for Catalytic Hydrogenation. Langmuir 2020, 36 (39) , 11589-11599. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c02153
Shuyan Gong, Yu-Xiao Zhang, Zhiqiang Niu. Recent Advances in Earth-Abundant Core/Noble-Metal Shell Nanoparticles for Electrocatalysis. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (19) , 10886-10904. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c02587
Yue Xin, Shuhui Li, Yayang Qian, Wenkun Zhu, Haibo Yuan, Pengyan Jiang, Ruihan Guo, Liangbing Wang. High-Entropy Alloys as a Platform for Catalysis: Progress, Challenges, and Opportunities. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (19) , 11280-11306. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03617
Biying Zhang, Yuchen Pei, Raghu V. Maligal-Ganesh, Xinle Li, Andrew Cruz, R. Jackson Spurling, Minda Chen, Jiaqi Yu, Xun Wu, Wenyu Huang. Influence of Sn on Stability and Selectivity of Pt–Sn@UiO-66-NH2 in Furfural Hydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (39) , 17495-17501. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01336
Boyang Liu, Diwen Xiao, Yu Wang, Pei Jia, Ning Huang, Xiaocheng Lan, Tiefeng Wang. Correlating C═C, C═O, and C═N Hydrogenation Activity with Hydrogen Binding Energies on Ni–Fe Bimetallic Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (34) , 18595-18603. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c04302
Konstantin Koessler, Harald Scherer, Burkhard Butschke. Phenyl-Group Exchange in Triphenylphosphine Mediated by Cationic Gold–Platinum Complexes—A Gas-Phase Mimetic Approach. Inorganic Chemistry 2020, 59 (14) , 9496-9510. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.9b03622
Xiuying Peng, Dongtao Lu, Yingnan Qin, Miaomiao Li, Yujing Guo, Shaojun Guo. Pt-on-Pd Dendritic Nanosheets with Enhanced Bifunctional Fuel Cell Catalytic Performance. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (27) , 30336-30342. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c05868
Won-Tae Koo, Jill E. Millstone, Paul S. Weiss, Il-Doo Kim. The Design and Science of Polyelemental Nanoparticles. ACS Nano 2020, 14 (6) , 6407-6413. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c03993
Xiaodan Ma, Zhe An, Hongyan Song, Xin Shu, Xu Xiang, Jing He. Atomic Pt-Catalyzed Heterogeneous Anti-Markovnikov C–N Formation: Pt10 Activating N–H for Pt1δ+-Activated C═C Attack. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (19) , 9017-9027. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c02997
Xiaopo Niu, Xiaoxue Li, Gang Yuan, Fuxiang Feng, Miao Wang, Xiangwen Zhang, Qingfa Wang. Hollow Hierarchical Silicalite-1 Zeolite Encapsulated PtNi Bimetals for Selective Hydroconversion of Methyl Stearate into Aviation Fuel Range Alkanes. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (18) , 8601-8611. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01275
Rao Huang, Jian-Xiang Bi, Lei Li, Yu-Hua Wen. Basin Hopping Genetic Algorithm for Global Optimization of PtCo Clusters. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling 2020, 60 (4) , 2219-2228. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.0c00130
Chenlu Xie, Zhiqiang Niu, Dohyung Kim, Mufan Li, Peidong Yang. Surface and Interface Control in Nanoparticle Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 1184-1249. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00220
Jing Zhu, Liangsheng Hu, Pengxiang Zhao, Lawrence Yoon Suk Lee, Kwok-Yin Wong. Recent Advances in Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Evolution Using Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 851-918. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00248
Changqing Li, Jong-Beom Baek. Recent Advances in Noble Metal (Pt, Ru, and Ir)-Based Electrocatalysts for Efficient Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. ACS Omega 2020, 5 (1) , 31-40. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b03550
Yancai Yao, Xiang-Kui Gu, Dongsheng He, Zhijun Li, Wei Liu, Qian Xu, Tao Yao, Yue Lin, Hui-Juan Wang, Changming Zhao, Xiaoqian Wang, Peiqun Yin, Hai Li, Xun Hong, Shiqiang Wei, Wei-Xue Li, Yadong Li, Yuen Wu. Engineering the Electronic Structure of Submonolayer Pt on Intermetallic Pd3Pb via Charge Transfer Boosts the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (51) , 19964-19968. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09391
Xueying Ren, Hao Lv, Su Yang, Yingying Wang, Jinlong Li, Ren Wei, Dongdong Xu, Ben Liu. Promoting Effect of Heterostructured NiO/Ni on Pt Nanocatalysts toward Catalytic Hydrolysis of Ammonia Borane. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2019, 10 (23) , 7374-7382. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.9b03080
Hongbo Wu, Jonathan E. Sutton, Wei Guo, Dionisios G. Vlachos. Volcano Curves for in Silico Prediction of Mono- and Bifunctional Catalysts: Application to Ammonia Decomposition. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (44) , 27097-27104. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b08662
Zhenchen Tang, Pei Liu, Huatang Cao, Sara Bals, Hero J. Heeres, Paolo P. Pescarmona. Pt/ZrO2 Prepared by Atomic Trapping: An Efficient Catalyst for the Conversion of Glycerol to Lactic Acid with Concomitant Transfer Hydrogenation of Cyclohexene. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (11) , 9953-9963. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02139
Qiangmin Yu, Yuting Luo, Siyao Qiu, Qinye Li, Zhengyang Cai, Zhiyuan Zhang, Jiaman Liu, Chenghua Sun, Bilu Liu. Tuning the Hydrogen Evolution Performance of Metallic 2D Tantalum Disulfide by Interfacial Engineering. ACS Nano 2019, 13 (10) , 11874-11881. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.9b05933
Yueqiang Cao, Bo Chen, Jonathan Guerrero-Sánchez, Ilkeun Lee, Xinggui Zhou, Noboru Takeuchi, Francisco Zaera. Controlling Selectivity in Unsaturated Aldehyde Hydrogenation Using Single-Site Alloy Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (10) , 9150-9157. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02547
Evgenia Kontoleta, Sven H. C. Askes, Erik C. Garnett. Self-Optimized Catalysts: Hot-Electron Driven Photosynthesis of Catalytic Photocathodes. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2019, 11 (39) , 35713-35719. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b10913
Kristina W. Golub, Taylor P. Sulmonetti, Lalit A. Darunte, Michael S. Shealy, Christopher W. Jones. Metal–Organic-Framework-Derived Co/Cu–Carbon Nanoparticle Catalysts for Furfural Hydrogenation. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2019, 2 (9) , 6040-6056. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b01555
Ji-Soo Jang, Seunghee Cho, Hyeuk Jin Han, Seok-Won Song, Sang-Joon Kim, Won-Tae Koo, Dong-Ha Kim, Hyeonsu Jeong, Yeon Sik Jung, Il−Doo Kim. Universal Synthesis of Porous Inorganic Nanosheets via Graphene-Cellulose Templating Route. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2019, 11 (37) , 34100-34108. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b11124
Zhe Li, Zhiyuan Qi, Siwen Wang, Tao Ma, Lin Zhou, Zhenwei Wu, Xuechen Luan, Fang-Yi Lin, Minda Chen, Jeffrey T. Miller, Hongliang Xin, Wenyu Huang, Yue Wu. In Situ Formed Pt3Ti Nanoparticles on a Two-Dimensional Transition Metal Carbide (MXene) Used as Efficient Catalysts for Hydrogen Evolution Reactions. Nano Letters 2019, 19 (8) , 5102-5108. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b01381
Rui Gao, Quanbin Dai, Feng Du, Dongpeng Yan, Liming Dai. C60-Adsorbed Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes as Metal-Free, pH-Universal, and Multifunctional Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction, Oxygen Evolution, and Hydrogen Evolution. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (29) , 11658-11666. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b05006
Yu Yao, Reiko Izumi, Tetsuya Tsuda, Yoshifumi Oshima, Akihito Imanishi, Naoko Oda, Susumu Kuwabata. Platinum and PtNi Nanoparticle-Supported Multiwalled Carbon Nanotube Electrocatalysts Prepared by One-Pot Pyrolytic Synthesis with an Ionic Liquid. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2019, 2 (7) , 4865-4872. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b00561
Hao Chen, Rui Wang, Rong Huang, Changbao Zhao, Yangsheng Li, Zhongmiao Gong, Yunxi Yao, Yi Cui, Fan Yang, Xinhe Bao. Surface and Subsurface Structures of the Pt–Fe Surface Alloy on Pt(111). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (28) , 17225-17231. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b01626
Xin Jia, Wei An, Zeming Wang, Jingwen Zhou. Effect of Doped Metals on Hydrodeoxygenation of Phenol over Pt-Based Bimetallic Alloys: Caryl–OH Versus CaliphaticH–OH Bond Scission. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (27) , 16873-16882. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04457
Luan Nguyen, Franklin Feng Tao, Yu Tang, Jian Dou, Xiao-Jun Bao. Understanding Catalyst Surfaces during Catalysis through Near Ambient Pressure X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy. Chemical Reviews 2019, 119 (12) , 6822-6905. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00114
Anand Kumar. Current Trends in Cellulose Assisted Combustion Synthesis of Catalytically Active Nanoparticles. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2019, 58 (19) , 7681-7689. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01007
Jean-Gabriel Mattei, Panagiotis Grammatikopoulos, Junlei Zhao, Vidyadhar Singh, Jerome Vernieres, Stephan Steinhauer, Alexander Porkovich, Eric Danielson, Kai Nordlund, Flyura Djurabekova, Mukhles Sowwan. Gas-Phase Synthesis of Trimetallic Nanoparticles. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (6) , 2151-2163. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b00129
Xiaochen Shen, Sheng Dai, Shuyi Zhang, Zheng Lu, Changlin Zhang, George W. Graham, Yu Lei, Xiaoqing Pan, Zhenmeng Peng. Oxidation-Induced Atom Diffusion and Surface Restructuring in Faceted Ternary Pt–Cu–Ni Nanoparticles. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (5) , 1720-1728. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b05199
Concha Tojo, David Buceta, M. Arturo López-Quintela. Synthesis of Pt/M (M = Au, Rh) Nanoparticles in Microemulsions: Controlling the Metal Distribution in Pt/M Catalysts. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2019, 58 (7) , 2503-2513. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.8b03311
Xiaodan Li, Weiming Wan, Jingguang G. Chen, Tiefeng Wang. Selective Hydrogenation of Biomass-Derived 2(5H)-Furanone to γ-Butyrolactone over Ni-Based Bimetallic Catalysts. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2018, 6 (12) , 16039-16046. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b02212
Mingchuan Luo, Yingjun Sun, Yingnan Qin, Shulin Chen, Yingjie Li, Chunji Li, Yong Yang, Dong Wu, Nuoyan Xu, Yi Xing, Lei Wang, Peng Gao, Shaojun Guo. Surface and Near-Surface Engineering of PtCo Nanowires at Atomic Scale for Enhanced Electrochemical Sensing and Catalysis. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (19) , 6660-6667. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b01638
Shinya Furukawa, Yukihiko Matsunami, Ikutaro Hamada, Yasushi Hashimoto, Yasushi Sato, Takayuki Komatsu. Remarkable Enhancement in Hydrogenation Ability by Phosphidation of Ruthenium: Specific Surface Structure Having Unique Ru Ensembles. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (9) , 8177-8181. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02582
Taiyang Liu, Chaozhong Li, Qiang Yuan. Facile Synthesis of PtCu Alloy/Graphene Oxide Hybrids as Improved Electrocatalysts for Alkaline Fuel Cells. ACS Omega 2018, 3 (8) , 8724-8732. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.8b01347
Raana Kashfi-Sadabad, Sajad Yazdani, Tran Doan Huan, Zhao Cai, Michael Thompson Pettes. Role of Oxygen Vacancy Defects in the Electrocatalytic Activity of Substoichiometric Molybdenum Oxide. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (32) , 18212-18222. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b03536
Andrey V. Bukhtiyarov, Dudari B. Burueva, Igor P. Prosvirin, Alexander Yu. Klyushin, Maxim A. Panafidin, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Valerii I. Bukhtiyarov, Igor V. Koptyug. Bimetallic Pd–Au/Highly Oriented Pyrolytic Graphite Catalysts: from Composition to Pairwise Parahydrogen Addition Selectivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (32) , 18588-18595. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b06281
Yan Wang, Sihui Zhan, Song Di, Xu Zhao. Novel Flexible Self-Standing Pt/Al2O3 Nanofibrous Membranes: Synthesis and Multifunctionality for Environmental Remediation. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2018, 10 (31) , 26396-26404. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b07637
Fangyu Fu, Changlong Wang, Qi Wang, Angel M. Martinez-Villacorta, Ane Escobar, Hanbao Chong, Xin Wang, Sergio Moya, Lionel Salmon, Eric Fouquet, Jaime Ruiz, Didier Astruc. Highly Selective and Sharp Volcano-type Synergistic Ni2Pt@ZIF-8-Catalyzed Hydrogen Evolution from Ammonia Borane Hydrolysis. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (31) , 10034-10042. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b06511
Qiuyi Yuan, Yuki Wakisaka, Yohei Uemura, Takahiro Wada, Hiroko Ariga-Miwa, Satoru Takakusagi, Kiyotaka Asakura, Stanko R. Brankovic. Reaction Stoichiometry and Mechanism of Pt Deposition via Surface Limited Redox Replacement of Copper UPD Layer on Au(111). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (29) , 16664-16673. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b02218
Chenliang Ye, Zhenwei Wu, Wei Liu, Yang Ren, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Structure Determination of a Surface Tetragonal Pt1Sb1 Phase on Pt Nanoparticles. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (14) , 4503-4507. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b02071
Yecan Pi, Qi Shao, Xing Zhu, Xiaoqing Huang. Dynamic Structure Evolution of Composition Segregated Iridium-Nickel Rhombic Dodecahedra toward Efficient Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysis. ACS Nano 2018, 12 (7) , 7371-7379. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b04023
Load more citations
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of line-of-sight deposition of metal overlayer by physical vapor deposition with thermal filament.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Idealized bimetallic surface structures with one monolayer of 3d metals on a Pt(111) substrate.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematics of surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structures derived from AES, low-energy ion scattering (LEIS), and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). (28)
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic of the (100) and (111) regions of a supported bimetallic particle. (200)
Figure 5
Figure 5. Proposed structure of a supported Pt–Ni bimetallic particle derived from TEM, FTIR, and EXAFS characterization.
Figure 6
Figure 6. DFT calculations of thermodynamic stability of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces in vacuum and with 0.5 ML of atomic hydrogen and oxygen. Positive ΔEseg values indicate that the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structures are thermodynamically stable. (33, 200)
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Normalized Ni/Pt Auger ratio as a function of oxygen exposure at various temperatures and (b) Arrhenius analysis of the activation barrier from Pt–Ni–Pt(111) to Ni–Pt–Pt(111) in oxygen environment. (64)
Figure 8
Figure 8. Left axis shows the DFT-predicted potential energy difference for segregation of Pt–3d systems with 0.5 ML O, and the right axis shows activation barriers derived using a Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi relationship. (33)
Figure 9
Figure 9. (a) Dependence of the ratio of XPS Ni2p intensity to XPS Pt 4f intensity and (b) reversible change in surface structure of Pt–Ni transition metal nanoparticles with the oxidation and reduction cycles. (209) Reproduced with permission from ref 209. Copyright 2009 Elsevier.
Figure 10
Figure 10. DFT calculations of binding energies of hydrogen and cyclohexene on Pt–3d–Pt(111) and 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
Figure 11
Figure 11. (a) TPD of hydrogenation of cyclohexene on Ni/Pt(111) monometallic and bimetallic surfaces; (b) volcano-type relationship between hydrogenation activity and surface d-band center value of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
Figure 12
Figure 12. (a) Side view and top view of configurations of adsorbed acrolein through di-σ-C–C, di-σ-C–O, and η4(C,C,C,O) on the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface. (b) DFT calculations of acrolein and hydrogen binding energies versus the surface d-band center for H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111), H/Pt(111), and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (17)
Figure 13
Figure 13. Variation of amide conversion as a function of time for the hydrogenation of N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one at 120 °C, 20 bar H2, stirred at 1500 rpm in hexane using (■) 4 wt % Pt–4 wt % Re/TiO2, (●) 4 wt % Re–4 wt % Pt/TiO2, (▲) 4 wt % Pt/TiO2, and (⧫) 4 wt % Re/TiO2. (290) Reproduced with permission from ref 290. Copyright 2011 Elsevier.
Figure 14
Figure 14. Ammonia decomposition volcano curve. (14)
Figure 15
Figure 15. Selective dehydrogenation of cyclohexene on polycrystalline Pt–Au bimetallic surfaces. (254)
Figure 16
Figure 16. DFT results for binding energies of methanol, methoxy, ethanol, and ethoxy on Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
Figure 17
Figure 17. Reforming yields of ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol versus the surface d-band center. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Fixed-bed reactor results for APR of 10 wt % ethylene glycol solutions at 483 K and 25.4 bar over Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts. (a) TOF–H2 (black) and alkane selectivity (gray); (b) specific H2 production rate (black) and irreversible CO chemisorption uptake (gray). (349) Reproduced with permission from ref 349. Copyright 2006 Springer.
Figure 19
Figure 19. Top and side views of adsorption geometry of glycolaldehyde on Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and the correlation between the surface d-band center and glycolaldehyde binding energy on different surfaces (23) (Pt, blue; Ni, gray; C, aqua; O, red; H, white).
Weiting Yu
Weiting Yu received her bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from Zhejiang University in 2008. She joined the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware the following fall and is currently in her fourth year. She is co-advised by Dr. Jingguang G. Chen and Dr. Mark A. Barteau. Her thesis is exploring catalytic conversion of biomass derivatives with topics of interest including catalysis, surface science, and renewable energy such as biomass.
Marc D. Porosoff
Marc Porosoff received his B.S. in 2009 and M.S. in 2010, both in Chemical Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University. He is currently working on his Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware. His research interests relate to alternative energy technologies through applications of supported bimetallic catalysts.
Jingguang G. Chen
Dr. Jingguang Chen is a professor of Chemical Engineering at Columbia University. He started his career at the Exxon Corporate Research Laboratories before joining the faculty at the University of Delaware. His current research activities include experimental and theoretical studies aimed at the utilization of carbide and bimetallic materials in catalysis and electrocatalysis.

1 Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
1.1 Unique Properties of Bimetallic Surfaces and Catalysts
The field of heterogeneous catalysis, specifically catalysis on bimetallic alloys, has seen many advances over the past few decades. Bimetallic catalysts, which often show electronic and chemical properties that are distinct from those of their parent metals, offer the opportunity to obtain new catalysts with enhanced selectivity, activity, and stability. Bimetallic catalysts started to gain considerable commercial interest in the 1960s for their use in hydrocarbon reforming because they displayed activities unlike those of the monometallic catalysts. (1-3) The findings of these unexpected properties of bimetallic catalysts have inspired many extensive investigations on their possible applications. Currently bimetallic catalysts are widely utilized in many catalytic (4) and electrocatalytic (5, 6) applications.
To understand the origins of the novel catalytic properties, bimetallic surfaces have also gained a considerable amount of interest for fundamental surface science research, as summarized in several earlier reviews. (7-9) It is now well-known that bimetallic surfaces often show novel properties that are not present on either of the parent metal surfaces. (7, 8, 10-23) The modification effect is especially important when the admetal coverage is in the submonolayer to monolayer regime. However, it is difficult to know a priori how the electronic and chemical properties of a particular bimetallic surface will be modified relative to the parent metals. For this reason, the study of bimetallic surfaces in the field of catalysis has gained considerable interest. There are two critical factors that contribute to the modification of the electronic and chemical properties of a metal in a bimetallic surface. First, the formation of heteroatom bonds changes the electronic environment of the metal surface, giving rise to modifications of its electronic structure through the ligand effect. Second, the geometry of the bimetallic structure is typically different from that of the parent metals, e.g., the average metal–metal bond lengths change, resulting in the strain effect that is known to modify the electronic structure of the metal through changes in orbital overlap. (16)
In the past decade there have been significant efforts in density functional theory (DFT) calculations and ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) experiments on bimetallic surfaces. One of the new findings is that, depending on experimental conditions, the monolayer admetal can interact with the host metal substrate in one of the three structures: occupying the topmost surface sites to produce the surface monolayer, diffusing into the subsurface region to form the subsurface monolayer, and alloying with the surface to produce intermixed bimetallic surfaces. DFT modeling results clearly indicate that the modification on the surface d-band center is significantly different for the three types of bimetallic structures. Surface science results, using several probe molecules, also confirm the different chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces with surface monolayer and subsurface monolayer structures. In addition, the combination of DFT modeling and experimental results reveal a general correlation between the position of the surface d-band center and the adsorption energy for various bimetallic structures, making it possible to predict bimetallic structures with desirable chemical properties.
1.2 Scope of the Current Review
Although studies on model bimetallic surfaces provide fundamental insight into the novel catalytic properties, in an industrially relevant supported catalyst the active metal will be present in the form of nanoparticles on a high-surface-area support. The primary objective of the current review is to provide correlations between model surfaces and supported catalysts for several types of catalytic reactions. In particular, we will attempt to bridge the “materials gap” between model surfaces and supported catalysts and the “pressure gap” between UHV environment and reaction environment. We will utilize successful examples, such as hydrogenation reactions, to demonstrate the feasibility of bridging the materials and pressure gaps between model surfaces and real-world catalysis. We will also use other reactions to point out the challenges in applying fundamental surface science studies to predict stable bimetallic structures for catalysis.
Because of the enormous volumes of work in bimetallic catalysis, in the current review we will focus on Pt-based bimetallic surfaces and catalysts. The reasons for choosing Pt-based bimetallic systems are primarily 2-fold: (i) they are the most well-studied bimetallic surfaces using both DFT calculations and surface science experiments, and (ii) they are among the most commonly used bimetallic catalysts in both catalytic and electrocatalytic applications. In addition, other bimetallic catalysts without Pt also have interesting properties and important applications. In many cases, the benefits of Pt-free bimetallic alloys are similar to those achieved with Pt. These bimetallic combinations also have similarly modified electronic properties that lead to increased activity and selectivity. (24) For example, Au–Ag catalysts are active for CO oxidation because the synergistic interaction between the two metals improves the catalytic performance. In this case, Au adsorbs CO molecules and the neighboring Ag adsorbs reactive oxygen species. (25) Non-noble metal bimetallic catalysts are also of interest because of the potential savings in material cost. The Ni–Cu system is one example that has been previously studied for the hydrolysis of NaBH4 to release hydrogen. (26) Although non-Pt-containing systems have important applications, the scope of this review article is limited to Pt-based catalysts to provide a focused and in-depth review of bimetallic catalysis. In section 2 we will utilize one of the most thoroughly studied bimetallic systems, Ni/Pt, to introduce the preparation procedures and common characterization techniques for both bimetallic surfaces and supported catalysts. This will be followed in section 3 by DFT calculations and experimental verification of stable bimetallic structures under different reaction conditions. In section 4 we will summarize the unique properties and general trends of bimetallic surfaces and catalysts for different types of reactions, including hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, reforming, and oxidation reactions. The review will conclude by pointing out challenges and research opportunities for further advancing bimetallic catalysis.
2 Preparation and Characterization of Bimetallic Surfaces and Catalysts
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1 Model Surfaces
2.1.1 Preparation of Bimetallic Surfaces
Among the various deposition methods, physical vapor deposition (PVD) is most compatible with the UHV environment necessary for surface science studies. The PVD methods utilize line-of-sight deposition to produce a metal overlayer on the target substrate. The controlling parameters of typical PVD synthesis include the rate of metal vapor flux, time of deposition, substrate temperature, and deposition environment such as in vacuum or in the background of selected gases. Common PVD methods include magnetron sputtering, pulsed laser deposition, e-beam sputtering, and physical evaporation of the overlayer metal via thermal filament. Figure 1 shows the typical experimental setup of a metal source for thermal evaporation. The metal source consists of a thin (typically 0.2–0.5 mm) tungsten (W) or tantalum (Ta) wire, which is wrapped around with wire (typically 0.05–0.1 mm) of the metal of interest. The W or Ta wire is connected to the power supply through a UHV feedthrough to a DC or AC power supply for resistive heating. The extremely high melting temperature of the W or Ta filament allows deposition of the metal of interest without contamination from W or Ta. The evaporation filament is typically housed in a stainless steel cylinder, with a small opening at the front face of the cylinder to direct the metal deposition onto the substrate and to prevent the evaporation of metals onto other components in the UHV system. The metal source is gradually heated to the temperature of evaporation and held for a certain amount of time to achieve reproducible deposition of an impurity-free metal overlayer. Such conditioning of the source takes many hours, often at a current or voltage slightly higher than what is used for the metal deposition. The pressure in the UHV system should be 5 × 10–10 Torr or lower during evaporation to prevent the accumulation of background impurities on the bimetallic surface.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of line-of-sight deposition of metal overlayer by physical vapor deposition with thermal filament.
Procedures for the preparation of bimetallic surface structures under UHV conditions have been described in detail previously. (27, 28) For example, when a 3d transition metal is deposited onto a Pt(111) surface at 300 K, the 3d atoms stay on the topmost layer to produce the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface configuration. If this surface is subsequently heated to 600 K, or if the monolayer deposition of the 3d metal occurs with the Pt(111) substrate held at 600 K, most of the 3d atoms diffuse into the subsurface region to produce the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structure. As shown in Figure 2, monolayer bimetallic surfaces can have three idealized configurations: a surface 3d–Pt–Pt(111) configuration, where the metal monolayer grows epitaxially on the surface of the Pt substrate; an intermixed configuration, where the 3d atoms reside in the first two Pt layers to some varying degree; and the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) configuration, where the first layer is composed of Pt atoms and the second layer consists of the 3d atoms. Determination of the structures and elemental compositions of various bimetallic surfaces requires the utilization of a battery of UHV techniques, as described in the next section.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Idealized bimetallic surface structures with one monolayer of 3d metals on a Pt(111) substrate.
2.1.2 Common Characterization Techniques for Bimetallic Surfaces
Auger Electron Spectroscopy and X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy
The Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) peak-to-peak intensities and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) peak areas are often used to quantify the elemental compositions of bimetallic surfaces after normalization by the relevant sensitivity factors and consideration of the sampling depth of the Auger electrons or photoelectrons. (10) AES and XPS are also useful techniques to determine the growth mechanism of the metal overlayer, either in a layer-by-layer fashion or via 3-dimensional (3D) island formation. In the latter growth mechanism, a uniform monolayer is not formed because the cohesive energy between metal overlayer atoms (M–M) is generally higher than the adsorption energy between the metal overlayer and the substrate surface (M–S). The layer-by-layer and the 3D island growth mechanisms can often be differentiated by measuring the AES or XPS intensities as a function of deposition time. In the layer-by-layer mechanism, the peak intensity of both the metal overlayer and the substrate show distinct breaks, with the first break indicating the deposition time for the completion of the first monolayer. In contrast, such breaks are absent for the 3D island growth mechanism. (10) Because of the relative ease of these experiments, the AES or XPS growth calibration curves should be measured whenever a new overlayer/substrate system is investigated.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematics of surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structures derived from AES, low-energy ion scattering (LEIS), and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). (28)
Low-Energy Ion Scattering
Compared with AES and XPS, low-energy ion scattering (LEIS) (29) is much more sensitive in detecting the elemental composition of the topmost layer of bimetallic surfaces. In LEIS experiments, the surface is bombarded with positive ions of an inert element, such as He, Ne, or Ar, at a relatively low energy (100–5000 eV). The incident ions are scattered back with an energy that is directly related to the mass of the surface atom with which they collide. Because the ions have different sensitivities toward atoms of different atomic numbers, the intensity of the scattering peaks needs to be normalized to the intensity of a pure surface of each element. In the case of bimetallic surfaces, the sensitivity factor for the substrate is determined by measuring the intensity of the LEIS signal for a clean substrate surface and that of the thick metal film of interest.
Low-Energy Electron Diffraction
Low-energy electron diffraction (LEED) is a useful technique to determine the overlayer structure in bimetallic surfaces. LEED is very useful in identifying the periodicity of the metal overlayer with respect to the single-crystal substrate. (30, 31) For example, LEED studies have helped reveal that bimetallic alloy surfaces, such as Pt80Ni20(001), Pt80Co20(111), and Pt80Fe20(111), all exhibit a pure Pt outermost layer with a Pt-depleted layer underneath. (32) LEED measurements are also important to confirm the epitaxial growth of the metal overlayer.
Scanning Tunneling Microscopy
Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) is often used to determine the structure and morphology of the metal overlayer in bimetallic surfaces. In STM experiments a tip is scanned over a sample surface in a regular array, adjusting the height of the tip to keep either the tunneling current or the voltage constant between the STM tip and the surface. The fluctuations of intensity can often be related to differing elements, which is useful in determining the growth mechanism of the metal overlayer as well as the morphology of bimetallic surfaces.
2.1.3 Example: Characterization of Ni/Pt Bimetallic Surfaces
In this section we will illustrate the synthesis and characterization of bimetallic surfaces following the deposition of one monolayer of Ni on either a Pt(111) single crystal or a polycrystalline Pt substrate. The characterization of Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces is very useful in providing structural models for DFT calculations. It is also critical in correlating bimetallic structures with the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces. (10)
For example, Figure 3 shows the LEIS and AES results following the annealing of the 300 K Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface to 900 K. For the LEIS experiments (Figure 3a), Ni was deposited at 300 K and the initial coverage of Ni was ∼1 ML. After a small initial increase in the Ni intensity, possibly due to desorption of contaminant H2, the Ni intensity decreased significantly with increasing temperature until it became nearly undetectable by 800 K. There were corresponding increases in the Pt intensity as the annealing temperature increased. Similar trends were observed in the AES experiments (Figure 3b), which were performed at three different initial coverages. The Ni/Pt AES ratio underwent significant decreases at above 700 K, indicating the diffusion of Ni into regions that were beyond the detection limit of the AES measurements. (27, 28)
The STM images provided further characterization of the 300 and 640 K Ni/Pt(111) surfaces. As shown in Figure 3c, after deposition at 300 K, Ni atoms formed islands that were a single atomic layer thick and nucleated at the step edges of the Pt(111) surface. Upon annealing to 640 K, all of the island features disappeared, as shown in Figure 3d. The surface appeared fairly uniform, with many small, “wormlike” features, which were attributed to the strain caused by the subsurface Ni atoms in Pt(111). Overall, the AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM results confirmed the presence of a surface Ni monolayer on Pt(111) after the deposition of Ni at 300 K. The characterization following annealing to 600–640 K was consistent with the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface region of Pt(111); the possibility of the production of the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure, with Ni atoms staying directly underneath the surface Pt, was further suggested from DFT calculations and experimental measurements of chemical properties, as described later.
In practice, bimetallic catalysts are often supported nanoparticles of varying shape and size. Polycrystalline bimetallic films provide a potential way to bridge the “materials gap” between single-crystal surfaces and supported catalysts. As illustrated in Figure 4, it is reasonable to assume that the surface chemistry of the nanoparticle should be dominated primarily by the first few atomic layers. It is also reasonable to assume that the chemistry of the individual crystal facets on the nanoparticle (primarily (111) and (100) for a face-centered cubic (fcc) nanoparticle) can be approximated by their respective single-crystal extensions. With these assumptions, Menning and Chen deposited Ni on a polycrystalline Pt film that contained mainly the (111) and (100) facets to mimic supported bimetallic particles. (33) Similar to Pt(111), monolayer Ni was deposited on the polycrystalline Pt foil at room temperature to produce the Ni–Pt–Pt surface structure, followed by annealing to higher temperatures to obtain the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure. More about the similar catalytic properties between single-crystal Pt–Ni–Pt(111), polycrystalline Pt–Ni–Pt, and supported Pt–Ni catalysts will be illustrated later.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic of the (100) and (111) regions of a supported bimetallic particle. (200)
In addition to the examples given above, many UHV techniques have been utilized to characterize the surface structures of several bimetallic systems. Table 1 provides a list of selected bimetallic surfaces, along with the corresponding UHV techniques or theoretical calculations used to characterize the surface properties.
Table 1. Summary of Studies of Pt-Based Bimetallic Surfaces and the Corresponding Characterization Techniques and Computational Methods
surface technique surface technique
Pt/Co(111) DFT, (34) MD (35) Ni/Pt(111) AES, (28, 54, 64, 88-90) LEED, (28, 88-90) STM, (28) LEIS, (28) MCS, (91) DFT (64, 68, 92)
Pt/Cu(100) CAICISS, (36) LEED, (36-41) XPS, (36) LEIS, (36) PES, (40) BFS, (42) AES (41) Ni50Pt50(111) MCS (87)
Pt/Cu(111) DFT, (43) AES, (44, 45) TDS, (44) PES, (46) LEED, (45, 47) MEIS, (48) LEIS (47, 49, 50) Ni/Pt(997) STM (93)
PtAu cluster DFT (51) Pd/Pt(111) CV, (94) FTIR, (94) DFT, (95) SXS (96)
Pt/Ni(110) XPS, (52) LEED (52) Rh/Pt(100) STM, (97) LEED (97)
Pt/Ni(111) AES, (53, 54) DFT (34, 55) Rh/Pt(110) STM, (97) LEED (97)
Pt/Pd(111) PES (56, 57) Ru/Pt(100) LEED, (98) XPS, (98, 99) IRAS (99)
Al/Pt(111) XPS, (58) AES, (58) STM (58) Ag/Pt(100) STM, (100) AES (100)
Ce/Pt(111) LEED, (59) XPS (59) Ag/Pt(111) DFT, (43) PES, (101) STM (102, 103) LEED, (104-106) AES, (104, 105) UPS (104, 105)
Co/Pt(111) AES, (60-64) LEED, (61, 63, 65, 66) UPS, (61) STM, (65) DFT, (64, 67, 68) SMOKE, (62, 69, 70)MEIS (69, 70) Ag/Pt(997) PES (101)
Co20Pt80(111) IS, (71) MCS (71) Sn/Pt(100) AES, (107-109) STM, (107) LEED, (107-109) ALISS (109)
Cu/Pt(100) PAX, (72) AES, (72) LEED (72) Sn/Pt(111) AES, (110-112) LEED, (111-116) DFT, (117) XPS, (112, 113, 115) STM, (112) CV, (113) PES (114, 116)
Cu/Pt(111) HAS, (73) STM, (73) AES, (74, 75) PES (46) Ti/Pt(111) DFT (64, 68)
Cu/Pt(12 12 11) HAS, (76) MEIS (76) Tm/Pt(111) LEED, (118) XPS (118)
Cr/Pt(001) DFT (77) V/Pt(001) DFT (77)
Cr/Pt(111) STM, (78) DFT (64, 68) V/Pt(111) DFT (64, 68)
Au/Pt(111) XPS (79) Pt/Rh(100) LEIS, (119) PES, (120) LEED, (97) STM (97)
Au/polycrystalline Pt XPS, (80) TPD (80) Pt/Rh(110) LEED, (97) STM (97)
AuPt clusters DFT (51) Pt/Rh(111) AES, (121) UPS, (121) LEIS, (121) STM, (121) PAX (121)
Fe/Pt(111) DFT, (64, 68) XPS, (81) LEED, (81) LEIS (81) Pt25Rh75(410) LEIS (122)
Fe/Pt(997) TEAS, (82) AES (82) Pt/Ru(0001) STM (123-125)
La/Pt(111) PES, (83, 84) LEED (84) Pt/W(110) LEED, (126) ΔΦ, (126) AES (127)
Mn/Pt(001) DFT (77) Pt/W(111) HRXPS, (128) SXPS, (9, 129) AES, (9) LEED, (9) LEEM, (9, 130) TPD, (9) STM, (130) FEM (131)
Mn/Pt(111) DFT (64, 68) Pt/W(211) SXPS, (9, 132, 133) AES, (9, 132-134) LEED, (9, 133, 134) LEEM, (9) TPD, (9, 133, 134) DFT, (135) STM (134)
Mo/Pt(111) XPS, (85) LEED, (86) AES, (86) ΔΦ (86) Pt/Re(1121) LEED, (136) STM, (136) LEIS, (136) XPS (136)
Ni50Pt50(110) MCS (87)    
2.2 Supported Catalysts
2.2.1 Synthesis of Supported Bimetallic Catalysts
Supported bimetallic catalysts have been synthesized using a wide range of synthesis techniques. In this section we will provide a summary of some of the most commonly utilized synthesis methods and the potential advantages of each method.
Wet Impregnation Method
Incipient wetness impregnation is the most commonly utilized method because of its ease in sample preparation. It involves infusing the desired support material with a solution containing a precursor of the desired metallic species. The support is impregnated with a volume of precursor solution that is equal to the pore volume of the support material. The amount of precursor required is calculated based on the desired metal loading for each catalyst, and the volume of the pores of the support material is measured prior to impregnation using deionized water. (137) To synthesize the catalyst, a known mass of a metal precursor is dissolved in a solvent. Deionized water is the most commonly used solvent for wet impregnation, but research groups have also used Pt–acetylacetonates dissolved in toluene to avoid acidification of the support, (138) ethylene glycol, (139) formic acid, (140) and acetone. (141) Catalysts can also be prepared with organometallic bimetallic molecular precursors. These precursors are advantageous to traditional metallic salts because the bimetallic bond is already present, leading to a higher extent of bimetallic bonds and a higher activity of bimetallic catalysts. (142)
Once the precursor is fully dissolved, the solution is added dropwise to the support. Capillary action carries the aqueous solution up into the pores of the support, where the metal precursor is deposited. By varying the drying rate of the catalyst, the precursor can deposit deep within the pores or solely at the pore entrances. After drying, the catalyst is calcined at high temperature to vaporize the nonmetallic components of the precursor salt, leaving the metal in an oxidized state on the support surface. Calcination is required to stabilize metals on the support surface and to prevent metal dissolution when exposed to moisture. Incipient wetness impregnation of bimetallic catalysts can be performed sequentially or simultaneously. In sequential impregnation, one metal is impregnated first, and then the catalyst is dried and calcined. After calcination, the second metal is impregnated to complete the catalyst synthesis. Sequential impregnation is preferred in cases where the metal precursors react with each other, but it has been shown that simultaneous impregnation of a bimetallic catalyst yields a greater extent of bimetallic bond formation and higher activity. (143) For example, Lonergan et al. have shown that Pt–Ni catalysts synthesized by simultaneous impregnation were more active for 1,3-butadiene and benzene hydrogenation than catalysts synthesized using sequential impregnation. (143)
Slurry Synthesis Method
This method is used for synthesizing catalysts with high metal loadings and/or supports with low surface areas. The slurry is made with the support material, metal precursor, and water. The amounts of support and precursor are chosen to achieve the desired weight loading of catalyst, and typically ∼15 mL of deionized water is used for each gram of catalyst. After mixing the components, the slurry is stirred for at least 8 h, during which an equilibrium amount of the precursor should adsorb to the support. (144) During stirring, the pH value is controlled to a set level using NaOH. Once the set stirring time has elapsed, the slurry is filtered and washed and then placed in a drying oven to evaporate the excess water. Catalysts are calcined at high temperatures after drying to stabilize the metal on the support and to remove unwanted elements from the metal precursors. This synthesis method has been used to prepare catalysts for the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics, which shows that adding a small amount of Pt to an Au/TiO2 catalyst increases the hydrogenation activity by an order of magnitude. (144)
Organometallic Cluster Precursors
Metal segregation, sintering, surface enrichment of one of the metals, and the inherent heterogeneity of bimetallic particles make the preparation of highly dispersed and uniform bimetallic particles difficult with conventional impregnation and slurry methods. (145) The dispersion of the active phase on the surface of a support is controlled by many factors, including the support type, method of preparation, calcination conditions, precursors, and metal loading. (146) A common problem of impregnation and slurry techniques is the separation of the precursor ions as they pass through the pore structure of the support, preventing the effective formation of the bimetallic bonds. An improved method to achieve higher uniformity of bimetallic catalysts is to adsorb ligand-stabilized bimetallic molecular precursors onto the support and then thermally remove the ligands. (147) For example, a bimetallic cluster, [(PPh3)Pt(AuPPh3)6](NO3)2, is used to prepare a Pt–Au catalyst particle, previously described in detail for different bimetallic precursors. (148) The organometallic cluster is mixed with an organic solvent such as CH2Cl2, and the cluster solution is slowly added to the oxide support with constant swirling. The clusters are spontaneously adsorbed onto the oxide support, and the remaining solvent is decanted. Residual solvent is removed by heating in vacuum, and the clusters are activated by heating in oxygen up to 573 K. Studies have shown that the bimetallic core of the cluster remains intact while the ligands are removed after heating. (145) In probe reactions of ethanol reforming, bimetallic catalysts synthesized with organometallic clusters outperformed catalysts synthesized using traditional impregnation methods. (149)
Reductive Deposition Precipitation
This is a useful method to produce highly coordinated bimetallic catalysts from monometallic catalysts. It is an alternative to the organometallic precursor method, which sometimes experiences premature decomposition of the organometallic complex, leading to inactive phases on the catalyst support. (140) In reductive deposition precipitation, a monometallic catalyst, for example, Pt, is prepared by conventional wet impregnation or slurry methods and then held under hydrogen. The hydrogen atoms adsorbed on the Pt particles react with a second metal precursor, resulting in the formation of a bimetallic surface complex. The surface complex is decomposed in hydrogen, leading to formation of a stabilized bimetallic species. (150) However, this method does not exclusively lead to formation of bimetallic particles, with some of the second metal precursor also depositing on the support. (151) Ekou et al. have shown that Pt–Ge/TiO2 catalysts synthesized using the reductive deposition precipitation method are active for the selective hydrogenation of citral into unsaturated alcohols. (152)
Electroless Deposition
This method is similar to reductive deposition but uses a controlled chemical reaction, catalyzed by Pt, to deposit a metal salt onto an activated metal site of a preexisting monometallic catalyst. This method is used for the synthesis of Pt–Ag bimetallic catalysts. (153) A preprepared Pt catalyst is suspended in deionized water with a second metal source (AgNO3), an ionic strength adjuster (NaNO3), a reducing agent (HCHO), and NaOH or HNO3 to adjust the solution pH. The mixture is stirred for 2 h while the pH is kept at 9 by small additions of NaOH or HNO3. After deposition, the slurry is filtered and washed to remove excess ions, then fully dried. Results indicate that Ag deposition is restricted to the Pt surface and does not readily occur on the catalyst support. (153) For hydrogenation of 3,4-epoxy-1-butene (EpB), the addition of Ag to a monometallic Pt catalyst increases the activity by ∼3 times. The effect of Ag addition is not as pronounced on the catalyst prepared using impregnation, indicating that electroless deposition leads to targeted placement of Ag on the Pt surface. (153)
Colloidal Synthesis
This method has the potential to synthesize supported catalysts with precise control over the size and composition of the bimetallic particles because the metallic colloid is prepared in the presence of a surfactant, which prevents the coalescence of small particles. The metallic colloid is prepared by making a solution of metal precursors, such as K2PtCl4 for Pt, in the presence of a cationic surfactant such as C14TABr. For bimetallic synthesis, precursors of both metals are mixed with the surfactant. The interaction between the precursor metal anions and the surfactant cation in aqueous solution leads to the formation of an organic metal precursor. The reactants are then stirred vigorously and heated to 323 K upon addition of NaBH4, a reducing agent. After reaction, the metallic particles are precipitated and washed in decreasing concentration of ethanol and increasing concentration of water until the particles are filtered and stored. (154) To prepare a supported catalyst, the metallic nanoparticles are added to the desired support in chloroform and sonicated for several hours. The suspension is centrifuged and washed with an acetone–ethanol mixture and then dried in an oven. (155) It is important to point out that the removal of carbon from the surfactants and colloids is critical for the utilization of these materials for catalytic applications. In particular, further studies are needed to identify procedures for carbon removal without changing the structure and surface morphology of the catalysts. Pt–Co catalysts prepared by this method and supported on mesoporous silica have been used for CO2 hydrogenation into CO and CH4 between 473 and 573 K. (155)
Core–Shell Synthesis
Core–shell nanoparticle catalysts consist of a transition metal core covered with a 1–2 monolayer shell of another metal, such as Pt. The transition metal core is prepared by dissolving a metallic chloride precursor in ethylene glycol with polyvinyl alcohol as a surfactant, while holding the solution under nitrogen. The solution is heated and the metal precursor is reduced by dropwise addition of NaBH4. After reaction, the colloid is quenched on ice, centrifuged in an acetone–ethanol mixture, and then dispersed in ethylene glycol. (156) To form the Pt shells, PtCl2 is dissolved in ethylene glycol at room temperature. With a syringe, a small amount of the metallic nanoparticle suspension is added to the PtCl2 solution. The mixture is often heated and held at elevated temperatures before quenching in an ice bath. The supported catalysts are formed by adding an oxide support to the colloidal suspension and drying the slurries in vacuum. Pt@Ru core–shell nanoparticles synthesized with this method were shown to be more active than their constituent pure metal nanoparticles, as well as their nanoalloys synthesized from conventional methods for CO oxidation in hydrogen. (156)
For core–shell systems, it is also desirable to synthesize catalysts with a low-cost transition metal core and Pt or other precious metals at the outermost layer. Mayrhofer et al. have found that, in PtCo@Pt core–shell nanoparticles, Pt segregates to the surface under a CO environment. (157) Another study with a M@Pt (M = Ni, Co) system shows high activity for hydrolysis of ammonia borane (NH3BH3). (158) Fe@Pt NPs supported on carbon have also been used for NH3BH3 oxidation. These catalysts are low cost, highly stable, and much more active than the commercial Pt/C catalysts used for NH3BH3 oxidation. (159)
Reverse Micelle Synthesis
This method uses microemulsions to produce supported metallic nanoparticles with a narrow size distribution. The microemulsion is formed by dissolving a small amount of a metal precursor in an aqueous environment inside of a nonionic surfactant. Upon addition of a reducing agent, such as hydrazine (N2H4), the metal precursors are chemically reduced, leaving nanosized metallic particles. (160) Synthesis of supported catalysts begins by mixing an aqueous solution with the metal precursor and surfactant with an oil-phase solution of the reducing agent. Under stirring, the solution becomes clear, indicating the formation of reverse micelles. A metal oxide support is added as the solution is titrated with acetone to disrupt the micelles, leading to the adsorption of micelles to the support. (161) Reverse micelle synthesis is a useful technique because the size of the metallic nanoparticles can be directly controlled by the ratio of water to surfactant. The amount of reducing agent can also influence the size of particles by increasing the nucleation rate and, thus, decreasing the particle size. (160) Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalysts synthesized using this method exhibit increased activity over their parent metals for 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation due to an enhanced bimetallic effect. (162)
Dendrimer Support Synthesis
Synthesis of metallic nanoparticles with dendrimer supports yields monodisperse particles with a diameter of 1–2 nm. This synthesis method overcomes the weakness of traditional impregnation techniques, which tend to make nanoparticles with wide size distributions. (163) Dendrimer-encapsulated nanoparticles (DENs) are synthesized by extracting metal ions into the interior of dendrimers and then chemically reducing the metal ions to form monodisperse particles that are <3 nm in diameter. (164) DENs are prepared by adding a low concentration of K2PtCl4, or another metallic precursor, to an aqueous solution of hydroxyl-terminated dendrimers. The generation (size) of the dendrimers can be used to directly control the size of the metallic nanoparticles. After adding the metal precursor to the dendrimer solution and stirring for 3 days, the solution is purged with N2 and then chemically reduced with NaBH4 overnight. The metallic nanoparticles are removed by dialysis and then filtered. (165) Once the solution of metallic nanoparticles is obtained, the particles can be deposited on a support by impregnation. Catalysts synthesized with dendrimer supports have been tested in several catalytic applications including hydrogenation (164) and CO oxidation. (163)
Other Synthesis Methods
Several other synthesis techniques have been employed to synthesize supported catalysts. Microwave-assisted polyol reduction (MAPR) allows very rapid uniform heating of the metal precursors to a high temperature within a few seconds. This shortens the crystallization period of the metal nanoparticles, leading to more homogeneous nucleation when compared to traditional synthesis methods. In MAPR synthesis, the support is immersed in an aqueous metal precursor solution and then dried in vacuum. (166) The MAPR method can be applied to bimetallic catalysts by adding a second metal precursor to the aqueous solution. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts have been successfully synthesized using the MAPR method with high activity and selectivity for cinnamaldehyde hydrogenation, with the MAPR catalysts outperforming catalysts synthesized by the conventional impregnation method. (166)
Another interesting approach is to directly deposit metal on an oxide support on the reactor wall. The reactor consists of an Fe–Cr–Al cylinder placed in a stainless steel tube, which is heated to high temperatures to produce a γ-Al2O3 film on the surface of the cylinder. (167) To prepare the supported catalyst, the Fe–Cr–Al alloy cylinder is dipped into a slurry of metallic precursors until the desired loading is reached, followed by drying and calcining the alloy cylinder. (167) The advantage of this synthesis process is that the catalyst is formed directly on the walls of the reactor, allowing for high loading and potentially uniform catalyst deposition. This approach has been used for preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen-rich gas streams, leading to a reduction of CO in the feed from 1% to <10 ppm. (167)
Finally, laser vaporization has been used to synthesize monometallic and bimetallic catalysts of approximately the same size, morphology, and composition. In the laser-vaporization technique, a low-energy Nd:YAG pulsed laser vaporizes a metal of interest from a rod to create a plasma. Crystal growth begins by introducing a continuous flow of He or Ar into the evaporation chamber, leading to the deposition of metal clusters onto the catalyst support. These clusters are highly uniform in size and composition as they are fully formed before they are deposited onto the support. (168) Although the quantity of the catalysts produced in this method is relatively small, these samples offer the opportunity for obtaining fundamental correlations between catalytic properties and the size, shape, and composition of bimetallic catalysts. Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 catalysts prepared by laser vaporization show similar trends as catalysts prepared by traditional methods for toluene hydrogenation. (168)
2.2.2 Common Characterization Techniques for Bimetallic Catalysts
CO and H2 Chemisorption
One of the most important parameters of bimetallic catalysts is the number of active metal sites, which is typically obtained using CO chemisorption. The CO uptake can be measured using many specialized instruments, but as an example, an AMI-200ip (Altamira Instruments) is a viable option. Measurements are performed by loading a known quantity of calcined catalyst into a quartz tube, which is then inserted into the instrument. Catalysts are reduced with a desired H2-containing gas mixture at a specified temperature and then are cooled to room temperature. After cooling, CO is pulsed over the catalyst, and the amount of effluent CO is measured using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). For proper comparison of catalytic activity among different catalysts, the reaction rates must be normalized by the values of CO uptake on each catalyst. CO chemisorption can also be used to estimate metal dispersion by assuming the stoichiometry of M/CO = 1:1 (M = Pt, Ni, Pd, etc.), although the 1:1 ratio is clearly an oversimplification. The dissociative adsorption of H2 is also used to determine the number of active metal sites. However, care must be taken because hydrogen starts to desorb from some bimetallic surfaces at room temperature.
Elemental Analysis
Two techniques are commonly used to quantify the concentrations of elements in supported bimetallic catalysts. Atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) is a quantitative technique used to measure the absorption of light by free atoms in the gaseous state. In a typical AAS experiment, an analyte solution is prepared by dissolving a supported catalyst, which is then made into an aerosol with a nebulizer and atomized using an air–acetylene flame. The concentration of metallic ions in the solution is obtained after normalizing the AAS intensity with reference compounds. (169) Another technique, inductively coupled plasma atomic/optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES/OES), is also used to quantify the concentration of trace metals within a bimetallic catalyst. (170) In principle, ICP-AES/OES should have a higher detection limit than AAS for most metals, although it is a more sophisticated and expensive instrument than AAS.
Temperature-Programmed Reduction and Oxidation
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) is used to measure the temperatures at which metals and/or supports are reduced in a catalyst. After calcination, a catalyst is placed in a reactor under flowing H2 and heated at a constant ramp rate. As the temperature increases, the catalyst is reduced by the H2 and oxygen is removed from the catalyst in the form of water. With a TCD connected to the effluent stream, the change in concentration of water can be measured to determine the reduction temperature(s). The TPR measurements provide information on the optimal reduction temperature for a catalyst, as well as whether the presence of Pt reduces the reduction temperature of bimetallic catalysts. Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) is similar in theory to TPR, but it is used to measure the amount of coke deposited on the surface of a catalyst. In TPO measurements, a spent catalyst is placed in a reactor under flowing O2 and heated at a constant rate. As the temperature increases, the coke on the surface of the catalyst is oxidized by O2 and the carbon is removed from the catalyst in the form of CO2. Using a TCD to monitor the composition of the effluent stream, the area of the CO2 intensity versus temperature curve can be measured to determine the amount of surface carbon. This technique can also be used to determine the strength of interaction between the surface carbon and the supported catalyst because a higher oxidation temperature indicates the coke is more difficult to remove. A related technique, thermogravimetric analysis/differential thermal analysis (TGA/DTA), is also used sometimes to determine the amount of surface carbon through precise weight measurements during TPO of spent catalysts. (171, 172)
Temperature-Programmed Desorption
Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) is used to determine the binding energy of adsorbates on catalysts. In TPD experiments a catalyst is loaded into a reactor fitted with a mass spectrometer. The catalyst can be pretreated under reduction conditions or used in the calcined form. After pretreatment, the catalyst is treated with an adsorbate, which is usually a reactant of interest. The excess adsorbate that is not strongly bound to the catalyst is removed by flowing He. The catalyst is heated linearly at a constant rate, (139) and the effluent products are monitored using a mass spectrometer. By plotting the evolution of the adorbate and its derivatives versus temperature, information can be inferred regarding reaction sites and binding energies of the adsorbate.
Transmission Electron Microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) are two primary forms of electron microscopy to characterize the morphology of catalysts. TEM uses transmission of a high-energy electron beam (∼200 keV) through a thin sample to produce an image, whereas SEM rasters a high-energy electron beam (1–40 keV) across the surface of a sample. In TEM, two primary imaging modes are used to investigate particle size and morphology of catalysts. Imaging can be performed in either bright field (BF) or dark field (DF) modes by selecting the direct beam (transmitted through the sample) or diffracted beam (diffracted off of the sample), respectively. BF imaging is used mainly to view catalyst morphology because the contrast between the metal and the support is too low to accurately quantify metallic particle sizes on supported catalysts. DF imaging has much more utility for viewing high atomic number (Z) transition metals supported on low-Z metal oxides. When combined with scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM), catalysts can be imaged with very high Z-contrast in high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) imaging. In HAADF imaging, the STEM probe is a focused beam that is rastered across an area of the sample. As the atomic number of the element increases, the scattering angle of the electrons also increases. Therefore, HAADF imaging easily distinguishes between different elements by Z-contrast to create a high-contrast image. (173) Unlike TEM, electrons in SEM are not transmitted through the sample. The most common mode of image capture in SEM is by secondary electrons. An image constructed with secondary electrons contains rich topographic information and has a 3D appearance. SEM is particularly useful for characterizing the morphology and topography of catalyst surfaces. Because the morphology of the catalysts often changes under reaction conditions, further development and applications of environmental TEM and SEM should provide additional means for catalyst characterization.
Recently, there have been advances to correct intrinsic imperfections in the lenses of electron microscopes to improve resolution at very high magnification. These microscopes contain additional lenses to correct for spherical and chromatic aberrations. Spherical aberration corrected TEM (CS-TEM) is capable of distinguishing features up to ∼0.1 nm for the viewing of individual metal atoms. This technique has been used recently to correlate strain effects in Pt–Fe@Pt nanoparticles to activity in the oxygen reduction reaction. (174) In addition to increasing the resolution of TEM, advances have been made in performing TEM under in situ conditions, referred to as environmental TEM (E-TEM). E-TEM has been used to study the behavior of Cu/CeO2 catalysts under reduction and oxidation conditions for several reactions including the water gas shift reaction, methanol synthesis, and methanol reforming. (175)
The chemical composition of a catalyst can be measured using energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) in both TEM and SEM. EDS relies on the principle of X-ray fluorescence to collect compositional data in specific areas of the sample. A fluorescent X-ray is created from atoms that are ionized by the incident electron beam. (176) The fluorescent X-ray has a characteristic energy that is equal to the difference of energy of the outer-shell and inner-shell electrons for a specific element. The peak intensities in EDS measurements can be used to estimate the elemental compositions of the sampled area after proper normalization.
Infrared Spectroscopy
Infrared (IR) spectroscopy is a very useful technique to determine the bonding configuration of reaction intermediates adsorbed on catalysts, as well as to measure the concentrations of reactants and products in the gas or aqueous phase. Several types of IR spectroscopy are used in catalytic research. The most common one is Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, (177, 178) which is used to measure the transmission of infrared radiation through a catalyst pellet or reaction environment. The IR cell is a gas-phase batch reactor that allows the heating and in situ reduction of the catalyst pellet. The rate constant and product distribution can be obtained by measuring gas-phase FTIR as a function of reaction time. In addition, FTIR measurements are often useful in determining the surface termination of bimetallic particles by measuring the vibrational frequencies of adsorbed carbon monoxide (CO). Because the frequencies of adsorbed CO are distinct for different transition metals, a comparison of FTIR spectra between the bimetallic and monometallic catalysts reveals which metals occupy the topmost surfaces of the bimetallic particles. As will be demonstrated later, the surface termination of bimetallic catalysts plays a critical role in the catalytic performance. Two other types of IR spectroscopy are also used in catalyst characterization. Attenuated total reflectance infrared (ATR-IR) measures the attenuation of total internal reflection of the reflected light (179) and is better suited for aqueous-phase environments. Diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) measures the reflection of the IR light from the catalyst, making it more surface-sensitive than transmission FTIR. In addition, a related optical technique, ultraviolet–visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (UV–vis DRS), is a surface-sensitive spectroscopy that is identical in theory to DRIFTS but uses wavelengths of light in the UV–vis range instead of in the IR range. The higher-energy radiation allows UV–vis DRS to probe the band gap of metals to obtain information regarding the oxidation state. (180)
X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy
X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) is a synchrotron-based technique used to characterize the local atomic and electronic structures (181, 182) of a catalyst under in situ conditions relevant to catalytic reactions. XAS measurements are performed by using a monochromatic X-ray beam and collecting the absorption coefficient, μ, as a function of X-ray energy. When the incident energy (hυ) approaches the binding energy Eo of a core level electron, a sharp jump in μ is observed, known as the absorption edge. The region of the scan that begins before the absorption edge and ranges to 50–100 eV above the edge is known as the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) region. (183, 184) The region beginning at 50–100 eV above the edge (after the XANES region) and extending up to 1000 eV past the edge is known as the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) region. (183) A critical feature in the XANES region is the “white line”, caused by a rapid increase in absorption. This feature is present in L-edges, due to the excitation of an electron from the p-orbitals into the higher energy, unoccupied d-states. (185) The main utility of the white line is to characterize the oxidation state of a metal during and after H2 treatment, as well as during catalytic reactions. For example, a reduction in the white line intensity after treatment in H2 indicates that the metal of interest is being reduced. With further analysis of the XANES region, information regarding coordination number can also be calculated. (181, 182)
The EXAFS region contains fine-structure information regarding the local coordination environment. The critical difference between the EXAFS and XANES regions is that in the EXAFS region the ejected photoelectron has sufficient energy to scatter from each of the surrounding atoms and then backscatter to the absorbing atom. (181) Because the ejected photoelectron has wave-particle duality, the outgoing and backscattered electrons can constructively or destructively interfere with each other, making it possible to derive information about the local coordination environment of the catalyst particle. For example, the intensity of the oscillations increases with increasing coordination number, while the frequency of oscillations is inversely dependent on interatomic distances. (182) Quantitative structural information can be obtained after data reduction and mathematical analysis of the EXAFS function, as described elsewhere. (183, 186, 187) Quantitative analysis of EXAFS results are obtained by fitting the reduced data to phases and backscattering amplitudes constructed either from reference compounds or calculations using simulation software such as FEFF. (187-189)
Additional information can be obtained by combining XAS with other techniques for in situ, time-resolved measurements. For example, combined XAS and XRD measurements are applied for investigations of catalysts under reaction conditions. (190) Several authors have further enhanced the combined measurements by adding complementary electronic and vibrational spectroscopy techniques, including ultraviolet-visible (UV–vis), infrared, and Raman, to the well-established XAS–XRD combination. (191, 192) Weckhuysen and others have combined the small- and wide-angle scattering (SAXS and WAXS) techniques with quick-scanning XAS to study in situ processes. (193) More details about some of these advances can be found in a recent review by Bentrup. (194)
2.2.3 Example: Characterization of Supported Pt–Ni Bimetallic Catalysts
Supported Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts have been synthesized using various synthesis methods and characterized with many of the techniques described previously. For example, Figure 5 shows the proposed bimetallic particle in Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 after in situ reduction in H2. (143) The particle size was determined from a combination of TEM and CO chemisorption analysis. The Pt-termination of the catalyst particle was derived by comparing the vibrational frequencies of adsorbed CO on Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 and the corresponding monometallic catalysts. The presence of fully reduced, metallic Pt and Ni was confirmed following the reduction of white line intensities in XANES during H2 reduction. The intimate contact between Pt and Ni atoms was verified by the detection of the Pt–Ni nearest neighbor in the EXAFS measurements. Overall, the Pt-terminated bimetallic particle in Figure 5 is similar to the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure in Figure 3, responsible for the strong correlation between model surfaces and supported catalysts for hydrogenation reactions, as discussed later.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Proposed structure of a supported Pt–Ni bimetallic particle derived from TEM, FTIR, and EXAFS characterization.
3 Stability of Pt-Based Bimetallic Surfaces with Different Adsorbates
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1 DFT Calculations of Thermodynamic Stability
One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties. For example, as shown earlier in Figure 3, the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates. Several other investigations of Pt–3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces.
Ruban et al. (198) have utilized DFT to calculate the segregation energy (Eseg) for transition metal alloys, which is the thermodynamic driving potential to move the subsurface admetal from the bulk to the surface of the host metal in vacuum. Alden et al. (199) have shown that the surface segregation energy in transition metal alloy depends strongly on the crystal structure and is essentially given by the difference in the surface energies of the pure alloy components. Ruban et al. (198) have performed DFT calculations of the values of Eseg for admetal atoms (M) on many host substrates (H), utilizing the linear-muffin–tin-orbitals coherent potential approximation. If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the M–H–H surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the H–M–H subsurface monolayer structure. Christensen et al. (43) have also utilized DFT to investigate surface alloy phases and their stability based on surface phase diagrams constructed from the surface energy as a function of the surface composition.
Greeley and Mavrikakis (12) performed segregation energy calculations by examining the effects of adsorbates on the stability of the surface and subsurface structures. It was found that the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures. Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals.
Besides hydrogen, it is also important to study the influence of adsorbates on surface segregation using a strong adsorbate, such as oxygen. Figure 6 shows the total energy difference, ΔEseg, defined as the difference between the formation energy of the subsurface and surface structures, as a function of the surface d-band center in the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) structure. The values of ΔEseg are positive for all systems under vacuum, predicting that the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically more stable than the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface in vacuum. For comparison, the ΔEseg values are also included in Figure 6 with 0.5 ML atomic hydrogen and oxygen. (33) The DFT results predict that the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface. Additional atomic adsorbates are studied by Menning and Chen (200) to compare how the thermodynamic potential for segregation varies with adsorbate binding strength. An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration. In contrast, an adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum. (200)
Figure 6
Figure 6. DFT calculations of thermodynamic stability of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces in vacuum and with 0.5 ML of atomic hydrogen and oxygen. Positive ΔEseg values indicate that the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structures are thermodynamically stable. (33, 200)
The results in Figure 6 indicate that the presence of atomic oxygen makes the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface structure more thermodynamically stable than Pt–3d–Pt(111). Menning and Chen have extended DFT calculations to the Pt(100) substrate to explore the effect of crystal structure on segregation. Although the values of the d-band center and ΔEseg are different for 3d metals on Pt(111) and Pt(100), the general trend in the relative stability of the surface and subsurface structures remains the same. (33) The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena. (201) Table 2 provides a list of DFT calculations and experimental studies of surface segregation of various bimetallic surfaces with several types of atomic and molecular adsorbates.
Table 2. List of Studies of Surface Segregation with Different Adsorbates
adsorbate surface techniques
O 3d/Pt(111), 3d/Pt(100) DFT (33)
O2 3d/Pt(111), 3d/Pt(100) AES (33)
H, O, C, N, S, and Se 3d/Pt(111) DFT (200)
vacuum, H, O 3d/Pt(111), 3d/Pt(100) DFT (202)
O2 3d/Pt HREELS, (202) AES (202)
vacuum Ni/Pt(111) MD, (203) DFT, (203) AES (203)
vacuum Re3Pt polycrystalline DFT, (204) XPS, (204) UPS (204)
O Pt3Ti(111) DFT, (205) MC (205)
O, OH Pt2IrCo(111), Pt2IrCr(111) DFT (206)
H2, O2 Fe/Pt(111) STM, (207) XPS (207)
CO, O2 Fe/Pt(111) DFT, (208) STM, (208) XPS, (208) HREELS (208)
H2, O2 Pt–Ni nanoparticles XPS, (209) HRTEM (209)
H2, O2 Pt–Cu nanoparticles XPS (209)
H2, O2 Pt–Co nanoparticles XPS (209)
CO Cu/Pt, Ag/Pt DFT, (210) TPD, (210) XPS, (210) ISS, (210) LEED, (210) PM-IRAS (210)
O Pt3M (M═Fe, Co, Ni) DFT (211, 212)
vacuum Pt3M (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) DFT (213)
vacuum Co/Pt(111), Au/Pt(111) DFT (214)
O Pt/Ir(core) and Pt3Ir(211) DFT (201)
O Pt/Co(core) and Pt3Co(211) DFT (201)
O Pt/Fe(001) DFT (215)
H Ti/Pt(111) DFT (216)
vacuum Pt/Pd(111), Pt/Pd(100), Pt/Pd(110) MC (217)
H2, O2 Pt–Ni nanoparticles XPS, (218) STM, (218) XRD, (218) XANES (218)
vacuum Pt3Ni(111)/M (M = V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir) DFT (219)
H2, O2 Pt/3d DFT (220)
OOH, OH and O Pt/Pd DFT (221)
vacuum PtRu/Ru(0001) STM, (222) AES (222)
CO, D2 PtRu/Ru(0001) TPD, (223) IR (223)
O Pt2Mo DFT, (224)
CO Pt–Au/TiO2(110) STM, (225) LEIS, (225)TPD (225)
3.2 Experimental Verification of Surface Segregation
DFT results predict that the surface 3d–Pt–Pt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen. Parallel experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation. To verify the oxygen-induced segregation, high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) has been utilized to monitor the segregation of Ni and Co in the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface configurations when exposed to oxygen. (64) The onset of the characteristic ν(Ni–O) and ν(Co–O) vibrational modes confirms the segregation of subsurface Ni and Co after exposing the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) configuration to oxygen at different temperatures. In addition, AES measurements were performed to quantify the segregation kinetics. The AES intensity ratios of Co/Pt or Ni/Pt were used to monitor the interchange between the subsurface and surface structures after exposure to oxygen. Figure 7a shows that the normalized AES Ni/Pt ratio increases after exposing subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) to increasing amounts of oxygen at various temperatures. The increase in the Ni/Pt AES ratio with higher oxygen exposures confirmed the oxygen-induced segregation of subsurface Ni atoms. Using an Arrhenius equation to analyze the data, such as that shown in Figure 7b, the activation barrier for the oxygen-induced segregation of Co and Ni is estimated to be 7 ± 1 and 15 ± 2 kcal/mol, respectively. This follows the trend predicted by DFT (Figure 6), where Ni is predicted to have the smaller driving potential for segregation compared to Co and should correspondingly have a higher activation barrier.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Normalized Ni/Pt Auger ratio as a function of oxygen exposure at various temperatures and (b) Arrhenius analysis of the activation barrier from Pt–Ni–Pt(111) to Ni–Pt–Pt(111) in oxygen environment. (64)
To capture the effect of the crystal facet on segregation, oxygen-induced segregation of subsurface Co and Ni has also been studied on polycrystalline Pt foil composed of nearly equal amounts of the two main crystal facets for fcc, (111) and (100). (33) Using a similar Arrhenius analysis procedure, an activation barrier is estimated to be 27 ± 1 kcal/mol for the segregation of subsurface Ni from the Pt(100) facet of the Pt foil, higher than the value of 15 ± 2 kcal/mol from Pt(111). This trend is consistent with the DFT prediction that the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt configuration should be more stable on the (100) crystal facet than the (111) facet. (33)
Experiments such as those shown in Figure 7 are extremely time-consuming to perform. Through the use of combined theory and experiments, an estimation for the activation barriers of other Pt–3d–Pt systems can be achieved using a Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi (BEP) relationship. (33) The constants in the BEP relationship have been derived from the activation barriers for the Pt–Ni–Pt(111), Pt–Ni–Pt(100), and Pt–Co–Pt(111) surfaces. The results from this prediction are shown in Figure 8, where the left axis is the segregation energy and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation. All of the Pt–3d–Pt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt–3d–Pt(111) configuration. Among Pt–3d bimetallic surfaces, the Pt–Ni–Pt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets. At the other extreme, the Pt–Ti–Pt surface is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Left axis shows the DFT-predicted potential energy difference for segregation of Pt–3d systems with 0.5 ML O, and the right axis shows activation barriers derived using a Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi relationship. (33)
In addition to segregation experiments performed under UHV conditions, the segregation of subsurface Co and Ni was also verified under ambient pressure using XANES (226) under in situ conditions. Using a polycrystalline Pt foil as the substrate, the Co and Ni atoms were found to undergo inward diffusion upon exposure to H2 and surface segregation after exposure to O2. These experimental observations further confirm the DFT prediction (Figure 6) that the Pt-terminated subsurface structure is stable with adsorbed hydrogen while the 3d-terminated surface structure is preferred with adsorbed oxygen.
Furthermore, such reversible behavior is extended to bimetallic nanoparticles. Mu et al. (209) have observed the reversible structural changes at the surfaces of supported Pt–Ni nanoparticles treated in alternating O2 and H2 atmospheres. Figure 9 shows the XPS Ni/Pt intensity ratio, which oscillates with the oxidation–reduction cycles. The XPS results indicate that the Pt–Ni nanoparticles surface is NiO-rich in oxidizing gases and Pt-terminated in reducing gases, consistent with the DFT predictions in Figure 6. Overall, the strong correlation between DFT prediction and experimental measurements, on both model surfaces and nanoparticles, provides conclusive evidence that the bimetallic structures change under different reaction environments. Such structural changes in turn modify the catalytic performance of bimetallic catalysts for different types of reactions, such as hydrogenation and oxidation reactions, as discussed in the next section.
Figure 9
Figure 9. (a) Dependence of the ratio of XPS Ni2p intensity to XPS Pt 4f intensity and (b) reversible change in surface structure of Pt–Ni transition metal nanoparticles with the oxidation and reduction cycles. (209) Reproduced with permission from ref 209. Copyright 2009 Elsevier.
4 Utilization of Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts in Catalytic Reactions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this section we divide the catalytic reactions into several categories: hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, reforming, and oxidation reactions. Table 3 summarizes selected UHV studies of the adsorption and reaction of different molecules on model bimetallic surfaces. Tables summarizing reactor studies over supported bimetallic catalysts based on the types of reactions are provided in the corresponding subsections. The main focus of the review is to identify general trends on how bimetallic catalysts enhance the activity and selectivity for each type of reaction. Special attention is paid to correlate model surfaces with supported catalysts whenever possible.
Table 3. Summary of Selected Surface Science Studies of the Adsorption and Reaction of Molecules on Various Pt-Based Bimetallic Surfaces
surface molecule technique surface molecule technique
hydrogenation dehydrogenation
Co/Pt(111) acrolein TPD (17) Sn/Pt(111) 1-hexene TPD (249)
Ni/Pt(111) acrolein TPD (17) Sn/Pt(111) n-hexane TPD (249)
Fe/Pt(111) aldehydes DFT (227) Sn/Pt(111) 1,5-hexadiene TPD (249)
Ni/Pt(111) benzene TPD (228) Sn/Pt(111) cyclopentene HREELS, (250) TPD, (250) DFT, (250) LEED (250)
Ni/Pt(111) 1-butene TPD (228) Sn/Pt(111) 1,3-cyclohexadiene DFT (251)
Pt80Fe20(111) crotonaldehyde GC (229) Ni/Pt(111) ammonia DFT, (14, 252) TPD (14, 252)
Sn/Pt(111) crotonaldehyde GC (230) metal/Pt(111) ammonia DFT, (253) TPD (253)
Sn/Pt(111) cyclohexanone GC (115) Au/polycrystalline Pt cyclohexene TPD (254)
Pt/Ni(111) cyclohexene TPD, (53, 54) HREELS (53) reforming    
Co/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD (60) Pt/Cu(100) formic acid TPD (41)
Cu/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD (231) Sn/Pt(111) ethanol TPD (255)
Fe/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD (231) Ni/Pt(111) ethanol DFT, (256-258) TPD, (256, 258, 259) HREELS (257)
Ni/Pt(111) cyclohexene TPD, (54, 89, 232) HREELS, (15, 89) NEXAFS (15) transition metal/Pt(111) ethanol DFT, (260) TPD (260)
Ni/Pt(111) deuterium TPD (89) Ni/polycrystalline Pt ethanol DFT, (261) TPD, (261) HREELS (261)
Pt/Ni(100) ethylene TPD, (52) XPS, (52) LEED (52) Ni/Pt(111) ethylene glycol DFT, (257, 258) TPD, (256, 258, 259) HREELS (256, 257)
Pt/Ni(110) ethylene TPD (52) transition metal/Pt(111) ethylene glycol DFT, (260) TPD (260)
Pt/Ni(111) ethylene TPD (54) Ni/polycrystalline Pt ethylene glycol TPD, (262) HREELS (262)
Co/Pt(111) ethylene TPD (60) Ni/Pt(111) glycerol TPD (256, 259)
Fe/Pt(111) ethylene DFT (233) Ni/Pt(111) glycolaldehyde DFT, (23) TPD, (23) HREELS (23)
Ni/Pt(111) ethylene TPD, (54, 89, 232) HREELS (54, 89) Pt/Ni(111) methanol XPS (263)
metal/Pt(111) ethylene DFT (92) Co/Pt(111) methanol DFT, (264)HREELS (264)
Pt/W(110) ethylene TPD, (127) HREELS (127) Au/Pt(111) methanol DFT (265)
Sn/Pt(111) ethylene TPD (110, 234) Ni/Pt(111) methanol DFT, (256, 264) TPD, (256, 262) HREELS (262, 264)
Fe/Pt(111) formaldehyde DFT (233) Ni/polycrystalline Pt methanol TPD, (262) HREELS (262)
Ni/Pt(111) 1-hexene TPD (228) Pt/W(110) methanol DFT, (266) TPD, (266) HREELS (266)
Sn/Pt(111) methylacetylene TPD (235) Au/Pt(111) NO DFT (265)
Sn/Pt(111) 1,3-butadiene DFT, (236) TPD (236) Pt/Au(100) NO KMCS (267)
Sn/Pt(111) 1,3-butadiene DFT (237) Sn/Pt(111) cyclohexanone TPD, (268) HREELS, (268) AES, (268) LEED, (268) DFT (268)
metal/Pt(111) 1,3-butadiene DFT (238) Sn/Pt(111) ethylene oxide TPD, (269) HREELS, (269) UPS, (269) DFT (269)
metal/Pt(111) cyclohexene DFT, (27) TPD (27) oxidation    
Ni/polycrystalline Pt cyclohexene DFT, (239) TPD, (239) HREELS (239) Pt/Ru(0001) CO STM, (124) TPD/TPR (124)
Ni/Pt(111) acrolein TPD, (240) HREELS (240) Pt/Ru(111) CO DFT (270)
metal/Pt(111) acrolein DFT, (241, 242) TPD, (241) HREELS (241) Pt3Ni(111) CO DFT (271)
metal/Pt(111) 1,4-cyclohexadiene DFT (243) Pt2Ni2(111) CO DFT (271)
Ni/Pt(111) 1,3-cyclohexadiene DFT (244) PtNi3(111) CO DFT (271)
Ni/Pt(111) propanal DFT, (245) TPD (245) Fe/Pt(111) CO DFT, (208) TEM, (208) UPS, (208) HREELS, (208) XPS (208)
Co/Pt(111) acetaldehyde DFT (246) FeO1–x/Pt(111) CO TEM, (272) DFT, (272) XPS, (272) UPS (272)
Co/Pt(111) acetone DFT (246) NiO1–x/Pt(111) CO TEM, (273) DFT, (273) XPS, (273) UPS (273)
metal/Pt(111) acetone DFT (247) Pt/Ru(0001) methanol FTIRAS, (274) TPD (274)
dehydrogenation hydrodesulfurization    
metal/Pt(111) ethyl DFT (92) Ni/Pt(111) thiophene TPD (88)
metal/Pt(111) vinyl DFT (92) sulfidation    
Sn/Pt(111) methylacetylene TPD (235) Cu/Pt(111) S2 XPS, (275) XAES, (275) TDS (275)
Sn/Pt(111) ethylene TPD (248) Sn/Pt(111) S2 TDS, (116) PES (116)
Sn/Pt(111) propylene TPD (248) Zn/Pt(111) S2 XPS, (275) XAES, (275) TDS (275)
Sn/Pt(111) isobutylene TPD (248)      
4.1 Hydrogenation Reactions
Catalytic hydrogenations are among the most commonly practiced catalytic processes, ranging from common steps in organic synthesis to batch processes in pharmaceutical production, to stabilization of edible oils, and to petroleum upgrading processes. Because hydrogenation reactions are typically exothermic, it is advantageous to carry out these reactions at low temperatures. In the current section we will first use the hydrogenation of cyclohexene to demonstrate the feasibility of increasing the low-temperature hydrogenation activity by reducing the binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, which can be achieved by designing bimetallic surfaces with specific surface structures. We will then discuss hydrogenation reactions of C═C, C═O, and N═O bonds to further illustrate the advantages of bimetallic catalysts in terms of both hydrogenation activity and selectivity. Hydrogenation studies under UHV conditions are summarized in Table 3; selected reactor studies of hydrogenation reactions over supported bimetallic catalysts are listed in Table 4
Table 4. Summary of Selected Hydrogenation Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
bimetallic catalyst support synthesis method reactants reactor temperature characterization techniques
Pt–Ni γ-Al2O3 impregnation 1,3-cyclo-hexadiene, 1,3-butadiene, 1,4-cyclo-hexadiene, benzene batch 308 K XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption, XRD, FTIR
Pt–Co α-Al2O3
Pt–Cu (143, 238, 243, 244, 247, 276) ZrO2 flow
Pt–Co (277) AC impregnation benzene flow 343 K XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption, TPR
SiO2
γ-Al2O3
TiO2
Pt–Ni (278) SiO2 impregnation toluene flow 353–573 K N2 adsorption, ICP, TPR, XRD, TOF-SIMS
SiO2–TiO2
mixed oxides
Pt–Co (279, 280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation cyclohexene batch 303 K XAS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
flow 273 K
Pt–Co (279, 280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation benzene batch 303 K XAS, FTIR, TPR, CO chemisorption, H2 chemisorption
flow 343 K
Pt–Ni (280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation cyclohexene batch 303 K FTIR,TPR, H2 chemisorption
flow 273 K
Pt–Ni (280) γ-Al2O3 impregnation benzene batch 373 K FTIR, TPR, H2 chemisorption
flow 343 K
Pt–Pd (138) Mg–Al oxides impregnation naphthalene flow 533–613 K XRD, CO FTIR, SEM
Pt–Pd (168) γ-Al2O3 laser vaporization toluene flow 333–500 K TEM, EDS
Pt–Cu SiO2 organic clusters, impregnation hexane flow 673 K DRIFTS, TEM, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Au (147)
Pt–Pd (139) γ-Al2O3 impregnation tetralin flow 573 K N2 adsorption, CO chemisorption, XPS, TPD, TPO, XAS
naphthalene
phenanthrene
Pt–Au (281) SiO2 deposition cinnamaldehyde batch 423 K ICP-AES, TEM, H2-TPD
Pt–Rh (282) AC colloid butyronitrile batch (liq. phase) 313 K XAS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Zn (283) TiO2 impregnation toluene flow 333 K FTIR, XPS, XRD, CO chemisorption, H2 chemisorption
crotonaldehyde
Pt–Ge (152) TiO2 reductive deposition precipitation citral batch (liq. phase) 343 K TPR
Pt–Ni (247) SiO2 impregnation acetone batch 308 K XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption, FTIR
γ-Al2O3
TiOx
Pt–Sn (150) SiO2 reductive deposition precipitation crotonaldehyde flow (liq. phase) 333–353 K TPR
cinnamaldehyde 313–353 K
Pt–Sn CNF reductive deposition precipitation, impregnation cinnamaldehyde batch 313 K ICP-OES, EDS, TEM, XAS, H2 chemisorption, N2 adsorption
Pt–Ga (140) flow
Pt–Sn (284) MgO impregnation crotonaldehyde flow 333 K XRD, TEM, XPS
Pt–Sn (285) C impregnation citral flow (liq. phase) 473 K N2 adsorption, XRD, TEM, TPR, CO chemisorption
773 K
Pt–Fe (286) SiO2 impregnation cyclohexane flow (liq. phase) 543 K FTIR, TEM, XAS, H2 chemisorption
citral 343 K
Pt–Fe (287) SiO2 impregnation acetic acid flow 463–513 K DRIFTS, H2 chemisorption
Pt–Fe (288) γ-Al2O3 organic clusters 1,3-butadiene flow 298 K H2 adsorption, TEM, EDS, TPR
Pt–Pd (289) none colloid acrolein batch 293–473 K XPS, TEM, EDS
Pt–Re (290) TiO2 impregnation N-methyl-pyrrolidin-2-one flow 393 K N2 adsorption, XRD, ICP-OES, TPR
Pt–Ni (162) γ-Al2O3 reverse micelle 1,3-butadiene batch 308 K TEM, AAS, XAS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (291) NaY zeolite impregnation, reductive deposition precipitation furfural flow 423 K FTIR, ICP, XRD, XPS, TPD, N2 adsorption
Pt–Sn (142) SiO2 organic clusters furfural flow (liq. phase) 363 K TPR, TEM, N2 adsorption, CO chemisorption
393 K
Pt–Ni (292, 293) γ-Al2O3 impregnation maleic anhydride flow 313–423 K XRD, TPR
Pt–Co (155) MCF-17 colloid, impregnation CO2 flow 473–573 K TEM, XPS, XAS
Pt–Co (294, 295) NaY γ-Al2O3 impregnation CO flow 473–533 K XAS, TPR, XPS, XRD
Pt–Mo (296) γ-Al2O3 impregnation CO flow 573 K XAS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (297) TiO2 impregnation citral flow (liq. phase) 343 K EDS, XRD, TEM, N2 adsorption
Pt–Co (298) C colloid, impregnation unsaturated aldehydes N/A N/A XRD, TEM, EDS, ICP, ATR-IR, XPS
Pt–Zn (141) SiO2 AC impregnation crotonaldehyde flow 353 K XPS, AES, TPR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (299) SiO2 α-Al2O3 impregnation crotonaldehyde batch (liq. phase) 313 K H2 chemisorption, CO chemisorption, TEM, TPR
Pt–Mn CNT microwave-assisted polyol reduction cinnamaldehyde flow (liq. phase) 333 K ICP, XRD, XPS, TEM
Pt–Fe
Pt–Cu
Pt–Ni
Pt–Zn
Pt–Sn
Pt–Co (166)
Pt–Ru (300) CNT colloid, impregnation cinnamaldehyde batch (liq. phase) 343 K FTIR, TEM,
Pt–Co SiO2 impregnation cinnamaldehyde batch (liq. phase) 353 K TPR, TEM, XAS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Cu (301)
4.1.1 C═C Hydrogenation
4.1.1.1 Example: Cyclohexene Hydrogenation on Pt–3d Catalysts
Cyclohexene is used as a probe molecule to study hydrogenation because cyclic hydrocarbons are important reaction intermediates in many refinery and petrochemical processes, in addition to serving as building blocks for many chemicals produced in the chemical industry. Furthermore, cyclohexene has several competitive reaction pathways, including decomposition, dehydrogenation, disproportionation (self-hydrogenation), and hydrogenation. Comparative studies of these reaction pathways provide an opportunity to determine how the formation of bimetallic bonds affects the hydrogenation activity and selectivity.
DFT and UHV Studies on Single-Crystal 3d/Pt(111) Surfaces
To facilitate the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene, one hypothesis is that an effective catalyst should bond relatively weakly to atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. Hammer and Nørskov (302) have shown that the binding strength of molecules on transition metals is dependent on the electronic structure of the surface, by using the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level to describe the surface electronic property. Chen et al. (10) have summarized experimental and theoretical studies that identify a nearly linear relationship between the binding energies and the surface d-band center for many adsorbates on a wide range of bimetallic surfaces.
DFT calculations were performed to estimate the values of hydrogen-binding energy (HBE) on several 3d–Pt–Pt(111) and Pt–3d–Pt(111) surfaces. As shown in Figure 10a, (27) HBE is related to the position of the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level, in agreement with the trend observed in previous studies for other surfaces. (10) In general, the addition of a 3d metal surface layer on Pt(111) moves the d-band center closer to the Fermi level compared to that of the bulk 3d metals. This is primarily due to the tensile strain induced by the Pt lattice because the ligand effect is weakest between late transition metal overlayers and the Pt(111) substrate. (16) Conversely, the presence of subsurface 3d metals shifts the surface d-band center of Pt away from the Fermi level as compared to that of Pt(111), mainly due to the electronic interaction of Pt and the subsurface 3d atoms. (16) The comparison in Figure 10a demonstrates that HBE typically follows the trend of 3d–Pt–Pt(111) > Pt(111) > Pt–3d–Pt(111). In addition, the nearly linear correlation between HBE and the surface d-band center should enable one to predict HBE on other bimetallic catalysts based on the extensive database of d-band center values for many bimetallic surfaces.
Figure 10
Figure 10. DFT calculations of binding energies of hydrogen and cyclohexene on Pt–3d–Pt(111) and 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
The binding energies of unsaturated hydrocarbons, such as cyclohexene, typically follow the same trend as HBE. As shown in Figure 10b, DFT calculations reveal that the Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structures bond to cyclohexene more weakly than Pt(111) and the corresponding 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surface structures. For example, DFT results indicate that both cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen are more weakly bonded on Pt–Ni–Pt(111) than on Ni–Pt–Pt(111), Pt(111), and Ni(111), suggesting that the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure should be more effective for the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene than the other three surfaces. This has been confirmed experimentally by comparing the hydrogenation activity of cyclohexene on these four surfaces using temperature-programmed desorption (TPD), as shown in Figure 11. (27) As illustrated in the TPD peak area of the cyclohexane product, the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structure shows the highest hydrogenation yield, with the desorption peak centered at a very low temperature of 203 K. Similar Pt-terminated bimetallic surface structures can be produced by depositing one monolayer of Pt on a Ni(111) substrate, which also possesses the novel low-temperature pathway for cyclohexene hydrogenation. (53)
Figure 11
Figure 11. (a) TPD of hydrogenation of cyclohexene on Ni/Pt(111) monometallic and bimetallic surfaces; (b) volcano-type relationship between hydrogenation activity and surface d-band center value of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
The trend in the DFT calculations in Figure 10b also shows that the binding energies of cyclohexene on Pt–Co–Pt(111) and Pt–Fe–Pt(111) are even weaker than that on Pt–Ni–Pt(111). Although this might suggest that the former two surfaces would be more active toward hydrogenation than Pt–Ni–Pt(111); one should keep in mind that the adsorption of cyclohexene needs to be strong enough for the hydrogenation to take place. One would therefore expect to observe a volcano relationship for the hydrogenation activity as the d-band center moves further away from the Fermi level, i.e., when the adsorption of cyclohexene becomes too weak for hydrogenation to occur. This is verified experimentally in the results shown in Figure 11b. The hydrogenation yield from TPD measurements is the highest on Pt–Ni–Pt(111) but starts to decrease on the Pt–Co–Pt(111) and Pt–Fe–Pt(111) surfaces, where the binding of cyclohexene becomes too weak for hydrogenation to occur. On the other side of the volcano curve, the binding energies of cyclohexene on the 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces are too strong, preventing the effective hydrogenation of cyclohexene. (27)
Extension to Polycrystalline Ni/Pt Films
Polycrystalline bimetallic films provide a potential way to bridge the materials gap between single-crystal surfaces and supported catalysts. As illustrated earlier in Figure 4, it is possible to assume that the surface chemistry of a bimetallic nanoparticle should be dominated primarily by the first few atomic layers. It is also reasonable to assume that the chemistry of the individual crystal facets on the nanoparticle (primarily (111) and (100) for an fcc nanoparticle) can be approximated by their respective single-crystal extension. (33) This is verified by studying cyclohexene hydrogenation on Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structures prepared on a polycrystalline Pt film consisting of mainly the (111) and (100) facets. (239) Similar to Pt(111), monolayer Ni was deposited on a Pt foil at room temperature to produce the Ni–Pt–Pt surface structure, followed by annealing to higher temperatures to obtain the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure. (33) Similar to the corresponding single-crystal surfaces, the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt polycrystalline structure shows significantly higher hydrogenation activity than that from the polycrystalline Pt and Ni surfaces. These results confirm the assumption that the trend observed on single-crystal bimetallic surfaces can be extended to the polycrystalline counterparts.
Reactor Evaluation of Supported Ni/Pt Catalysts
Supported monometallic Pt and bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts have been synthesized on γ-Al2O3 using the incipient wetness method. (280, 303) Characterization of the catalysts by a variety of techniques, including EXAFS, confirms the formation of Pt–3d bimetallic bonds. As shown earlier in Figure 5, the Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalyst is Pt-terminated and resembles the subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt structure. The Pt-terminated configuration is also consistent with results by Sedlacek et al. that the surfaces of Pt–Ni alloys are enriched in Pt when treated with H2, (304) as well as with findings reported by Arenas-Alatorre et al. for Pt–Ni catalysts supported on SiO2 (305) and by Mu et al. for Pt–Ni catalysts supported on graphite. (209) Because the Pt-terminated structure is thermodynamically stable in the presence of hydrogen (Figure 6), one would expect that the Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalyst should be very active for cyclohexene hydrogenation.
The supported catalysts were evaluated using both batch and flow reactors to determine the hydrogenation kinetics of cyclohexene at a low temperature of 303 K. The hydrogenation rate constants were determined to be 1.7, 21, and 24 min–1 for Pt/γ-Al2O3, Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3, and Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3, respectively. (280) The trend observed in the rate constant for cyclohexene hydrogenation is consistent with that from the single-crystal surfaces for the same reaction, Pt–Ni–Pt(111) > Pt–Co–Pt(111) > Pt(111), as shown earlier in the volcano curve in Figure 11b. The similar trend between DFT predictions on single-crystal surfaces, UHV experimental studies on single-crystal and polycrystalline model surfaces, and reactor evaluation over supported catalysts provides an important demonstration of designing bimetallic catalysts from combined theoretical and experimental approaches.
4.1.1.2 Low-Temperature Hydrogenation of Olefins, Dienes, and Aromatics
Similar theoretical and experimental studies have been extended to the hydrogenation of C═C bonds in a variety of molecules over Pt–3d–Pt(111) subsurface structures and supported Pt–3d catalysts. Goda et al. (306) performed DFT calculations of 1-butene and 1-hexene on 3d/Pt(111) surfaces and found that the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structure binds more weakly to 1-butene and 1-hexene than on Pt(111) and 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces, similar to the trend observed for cyclohexene. Murillo et al. (228) verified the DFT predictions with TPD measurement of facile low-temperature hydrogenation of 1-butene and 1-hexene on Pt–Ni–Pt(111). These results further suggest that DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energy can be used as descriptors for catalysts with good hydrogenation activity. Similar DFT calculations have been performed for the binding energies of 1,3-butadiene, (238) 1,3-cyclohexadiene, (244) 1,4-cyclohexadiene, (243) and benzene (277) on 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. On the basis of the binding energies and subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structures, correspondingly supported Pt–3d catalysts are predicted to show high hydrogenation activity for these molecules. These DFT predictions have been confirmed in reactor studies, as described below.
Hydrogenation of 1,3-Butadiene, 1,3-Cyclohexadiene, And 1,4-Cyclohexadiene
Bimetallic Pt–M (M = Co, Ni, Cu) are active toward the low-temperature hydrogenation of all three molecules when supported on γ-Al2O3. (238, 243) Pt–Ni and Pt–Co bimetallic catalysts both show higher hydrogenation rates than monometallic Pt. The Pt–Cu/γ-Al2O3 catalyst shows lower activity than Pt/γ-Al2O3 in batch and flow reactor studies; however, Pt–Cu/γ-Al2O3 shows higher selectivity toward cyclohexene and butenes than the other catalysts, indicating that it is a promising catalyst for partial hydrogenation reactions. (238, 243) Similarly to the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst, the surface structure of the Pt–Cu catalyst has been shown to be influenced by the surrounding atmosphere. (307) The Pt–Fe/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalyst also shows higher selectivity toward 1-butene rather than full hydrogenation to n-butane. (288)
The hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene has also been used as a probe reaction to further understand the catalytic properties of supported Pt–Ni catalysts. Combined EXAFS characterization and reactor studies compare Pt–Ni catalysts prepared using either sequential or coimpregnation methods. The results reveal that coimpregnation leads to higher hydrogenation activity and that the hydrogenation activity is directly related to the extent of Pt–Ni bimetallic bond formation. (143) Furthermore, by comparing the hydrogenation activity of Pt–Ni supported over low- and high-surface-area alumina and zirconia, it is revealed that the surface area of the oxide supports also plays a role in controlling the hydrogenation rate of 1,3-butadiene. (276)
Selective Hydrogenation of Acetylene in Ethylene
The selective hydrogenation of acetylene in the presence of ethylene is an important reaction because acetylene poisons the catalysts in ethylene polymerization reactions. (308) The Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts show a higher selectivity for acetylene hydrogenation in the presence of excess ethylene than the monometallic Pt and Ni catalysts. (303) The selective hydrogenation of acetylene is also a probe reaction to determine the effect of impregnation sequence of the Pt and Ni metal precursors. By impregnating Pt first, the bimetallic catalyst is much more active for acetylene hydrogenation. EXAFS measurements confirm bimetallic bond formation in the Pt-first catalyst but not in the Ni-first catalyst, likely due to the possible diffusion of Ni2+ into the cavities of the γ-Al2O3 support to produce Ni aluminate. However, at higher Ni loadings the impregnation sequence does not seem to play an important role. (303)
Hydrogenation of Aromatics
The hydrogenation of benzene to cyclohexane is of significant importance in the petroleum industry and for environmental protection. The process of benzene hydrogenation has been utilized commercially for the production of cyclohexane, which is one of the key intermediates in the synthesis of Nylon-6 and Nylon-66. (309) DFT calculations identified Pt–Co bimetallic catalysts as promising materials for the hydrogenation of benzene, which were confirmed experimentally over supported Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 at a relatively low temperature of 343 K. (280, 310) The hydrogenation rate over Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 was significantly higher than that over Co/γ-Al2O3 or Pt/γ-Al2O3. (279, 280) Comparative studies have also been performed on different supports that reveal that hydrogenation of benzene at 343 K over Pt–Co bimetallic catalysts follows the activity trend of activated carbon (AC) ≫ SiO2 > γ-Al2O3 > TiO2. The AC support exhibits the highest activity and performance due to the greatest extent of Pt–Co bimetallic formation from the EXAFS measurements. (277) Another feature of Pt–Co supported catalysts is that almost all Pt atoms in these catalysts exist in the form of Pt–Co, and the remaining Co forms a Co phase on the metal oxide support. (295)
In addition to bimetallic bond formation, Pt-based bimetallic catalysts improve performance by increasing the reducibility of alloyed metals. (171, 311) For example, Pt–Ni, Pt, and Ni supported on SiO2 and mixed TiO2 + SiO2 oxides were tested for the hydrogenation of toluene to methylcyclohexane for the production of cleaner-burning fuels. TPR experiments indicated that Pt promoted the reducibility of NiO, partially explaining the increased activity of the bimetallic Pt–Ni catalyst compared with either monometallic catalyst. (278)
Reports of hydrogenation activity on Pt–Pd catalysts have been conflicting. Pt–Pd catalysts supported on mixed magnesium and aluminum oxides are active for the removal of aromatics from diesel fuel to lower emissions. A higher Pd/Pt ratio leads to higher hydrogenation of naphthalene. (138) However, the activity of Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 for the hydrogenation of toluene does not show any synergistic activity, with the activity of the bimetallic catalyst being simply the sum of the activity of each monometallic catalyst. (168) The difference in reports seen on Pt–Pd may be due to different preparation techniques because different techniques have been shown to strongly influence the degree of bimetallic bond formation. (312)
Pt–Pd catalysts have exhibited a stronger bimetallic effect and greater sulfur tolerance when promoted with fluorine. Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 catalysts with and without fluorine were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation for hydrogenation of polyaromatic hydrocarbons. Pt–Pd catalysts promoted with F showed higher activity than the unpromoted Pt–Pd catalyst. EXAFS analysis showed that the Pt–Pd alloy was disrupted at high conversions of reactants, but the catalysts synthesized with F did not exhibit a disruption of the Pt–Pd bonds. (139) Babu et al. have shown that the interaction of Pt with Pd led to a reduction in the Fermi level local density of states at the Pd sites. This electronic modification may be the cause of improved catalytic performance of Pt–Pd catalysts with high coordination numbers for bimetallic Pt–Pd bonds. (313)
Hydrogenation of m-Cresol
The hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of m-cresol was performed over Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 to determine the role of hydrogenation for HDO. (314) The bimetallic catalysts were found to be very active toward the saturation of the aromatic ring, leading to a facile HDO rate in combination with the dehydration function of the γ-Al2O3 support. Because of the importance of HDO in converting biomass-derived oxygenates to fuels and chemicals, it is anticipated that the low-temperature hydrogenation activity of Pt–3d bimetallic catalysts should play a significant role in HDO catalysis.
4.1.2 C═O Hydrogenation
Catalytic hydrogenation of the C═O bond is an important industrial reaction for organic synthesis. (315, 316) The selective hydrogenation of the C═O bond in α,β-unsaturated aldehydes has been of growing interest for the production of fine chemicals and pharmaceutical precursors. (315, 317) More recently, C═O bond hydrogenation has been considered as an important initial step in catalytic conversion of cellulosic biomass. (318, 319) In this section we will first use the hydrogenation of propanal over Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts as an example to demonstrate the correlation between DFT calculations of binding energies, UHV studies of low-temperature hydrogenation, and batch and flow reactor evaluation. The rest of the section will focus on using bimetallic surfaces and catalysts to promote the selective C═O bond hydrogenation in unsaturated aldehydes.
4.1.2.1 Example: Hydrogenation of Propanal
The hydrogenation of propanal is used as a probe reaction to correlate the activity of C═O bond hydrogenation over Pt–Ni bimetallic surfaces and catalysts. (245) DFT calculations predict that propanal is more weakly bound to the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) subsurface structure than on either Ni or Pt, suggesting a possible low-temperature C═O hydrogenation pathway based on trends observed for C═C hydrogenation. UHV studies using TPD on Ni-modified polycrystalline Pt foil verify that different bimetallic surface structures exhibit distinct C═O hydrogenation activity, with the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure demonstrating much higher activity for propanal hydrogenation than Pt, Ni, and the Ni–Pt–Pt surface structure. The UHV results are extended to supported Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts. In the gas-phase hydrogenation of propanal, batch and flow reactor studies show that the Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalyst exhibits a higher C═O hydrogenation rate and a lower activation barrier than the corresponding monometallic catalysts. (245) The excellent correlation between DFT predictions, UHV studies on model surfaces, and catalytic evaluation of supported catalysts demonstrates the feasibility to predict bimetallic catalysts with enhanced C═O hydrogenation activity.
Using similar approaches, DFT calculations and reactor evaluations were performed for C═O bond hydrogenation of acetaldehyde (246) and acetone (246, 247) over supported Pt–3d bimetallic catalysts. Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts showed significantly higher hydrogenation rates for acetaldehyde and acetone than the monometallic Pt and Co catalysts. (246) Acetone hydrogenation was used as a probe reaction to determine the effect of oxide supports over Pt–Ni supported on SiO2, γ-Al2O3, and TiO2 at 308 K. (247) It was found that Pt–Ni/SiO2 exhibited significantly higher hydrogenation activity than the other supports. These hydrogenation results correlate well with EXAFS data showing the extent of Pt–Ni bond formation of SiO2 > γ-Al2O3 > TiO2. (247)
4.1.2.2 Selective Hydrogenation of C═O in Unsaturated Aldehydes
The selective hydrogenation of acrolein, the smallest α,β-unsaturated aldehyde, has been investigated on several 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. (17, 241) DFT binding energies of acrolein on H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111), H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111), and H/Pt(111) surfaces are calculated using di-σ-C–C, di-σ-C–O, and η4(C,C,C,O) adsorption configurations, as shown in Figure 12a. (17) Figure 12b shows the hydrogen and acrolein binding energies on the three surfaces. The DFT results show that the binding energies of acrolein are in the order of H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) < H/Pt(111) < H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111). (17) On the H/Pt(111) and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces, acrolein tends to be adsorbed through the di-σ-C–C mode, whereas on the H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface, the similar binding energies will lead acrolein to be adsorbed through both the C═O and C═C moieties. The direct interaction of the C═O group in the latter bonding configuration at least partially contributes to the experimentally observed hydrogenation of the C═O bond on the H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface. In comparison, bonding of acrolein occurs through the C═C moiety over H/Pt and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces, preventing the selective hydrogenation of the C═O bonds. (17, 241) The presence of the di-σ-C–O configuration has also been proposed for the adsorption of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes on Pt–Fe/SiO2, responsible for the selective hydrogenation of the C═O bond for the formation of α,β-unsaturated alcohols. (286)
Figure 12
Figure 12. (a) Side view and top view of configurations of adsorbed acrolein through di-σ-C–C, di-σ-C–O, and η4(C,C,C,O) on the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface. (b) DFT calculations of acrolein and hydrogen binding energies versus the surface d-band center for H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111), H/Pt(111), and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (17)
The selective hydrogenation of acrolein has been extensively investigated over many Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. On unsupported Pt–Pd catalysts, it was found that the metal ratios strongly affected the hydrogenation products. For acrolein hydrogenation at temperatures from 293 to 473 K, it was found that propanal was the primary product for all catalysts. However, for the secondary products, dipropyl ether was formed primarily over Pd, whereas propane and propanol were formed over Pt. As the surface of the bimetallic catalyst increased in Pt atoms, the catalyst behaved more like the monometallic Pt catalyst. (289)
Although Au is typically regarded as an inactive metal for hydrogenation reactions, combining Au with Pt can greatly increase its activity. (281) Au is a poor hydrogenation metal because it does not dissociatively adsorb H2. (320) UHV studies have shown that CO binds to the surface of Pt on top of Au(111) more strongly than to clean Pt because the Au substrate increases the activity of the Pt overlayer, with the change in the CO binding energy being proportional to the shift of the d-band center of the Pt metal. (320, 321) Such a modification effect on model surfaces has also been observed in supported Pt–Au catalysts. Pt–Au/SiO2 catalysts were found to be highly active for the hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated compounds because of the synergism between the Pt and Au metals. (281, 322) The high hydrogenation activity of Pt–Au could be a result of the rapid H2 dissociation on Pt and Pt–Au nanoparticles supported on SiO2 and TiO2. H2 dissociation on Pt–Au and Pt is considerably faster than H2 dissociation on Au, because H2 adsorption on Pt atoms is dissociative and no activation barriers are involved. (320) In addition to greater hydrogenation activity, Pt–Au shows enhanced resistance to deactivation when compared with a monometallic Pt catalyst. (147)
In general, the hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes over Pt-based catalysts usually yields the saturated aldehydes as the dominant products because of defect sites present in the metallic structure. Defects on metal surfaces favor interactions with the C═C moiety, which account for the undesired aldehyde products. It is hypothesized that 100% selectivity can be achieved through careful control of the size and shape of metallic active sites. (298) Tsang et al. confirmed that, at larger crystal sizes, Pt nanoparticles were more active for selective hydrogenation of the C═O bond in cinnamaldehyde. This is because the fraction of defect sites on Pt nanoparticles decreases with increasing Pt crystal size. Hydrogenation of the C═O bond in crotonaldehyde over Pt–Sn supported on SiO2 and α-Al2O3 demonstrated that the particle-size effect was not as important on bimetallic catalysts as it was on monometallic catalysts. This was because the addition of Sn had a greater effect on the selectivity to the unsaturated alcohol than the change in particle size. (299) Therefore, to increase the selectivity toward hydrogenation of the carbonyl bond with smaller metallic nanoparticles, it is necessary to add a second metal. This can be achieved by the addition of a more electropositive metal such as Co, (166, 298) Ge, (150) Fe, (150, 284) Ga, (140) Ni, (284) or Sn. (284)
For the hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde, the addition of Co to Pt nanoparticles produces cinnamyl alcohol as the primary product with a selectivity of 99.6%. (298) Pt–Co nanoparticles were prepared within a critical size range of 4.0–6.1 nm by colloid chemistry and then were applied to carbon supports. It was found that the Pt–Co/C catalysts hydrogenated the terminal C═O bond with high activity, while the catalyst was inactive toward the C═C bond. (298) These results were confirmed by Zheng et al., who showed that Pt–Co/SiO2 was much more selective toward the hydrogenation of the C═O bond than of C═C in cinnamaldehyde. (301)
Pt–Sn catalysts have also been shown to be active for selective hydrogenation reactions, with the hydrogenation activity and selectivity to unsaturated alcohols being highly dependent on the Sn/Pt ratio. It is suggested that the carbonyl group of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes is activated by a Sn species interacting with the oxygen atom, while dilution of Pt atoms by metallic Sn hinders the hydrogenation of the C═C bond and suppresses the readsorption of the unsaturated alcohol. (150, 285) Catalysts with Pt and Sn in close contact are more selective in the hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde to cinnamyl alcohol as compared with catalysts with a lesser interaction. (140) The interaction of Sn and Pt in Pt–Sn nanoparticles is known to be affected by the catalyst-preparation method and impregnation sequence. Co-impregnation of the fumed Al2O3 support with Pt and small amounts of Sn facilitates the formation of high Pt dispersion; however, sequential impregnation of the fumed Al2O3 support with Sn first, followed by Pt, leads to low Pt dispersion. (323)
In addition to the metal affecting selectivity, the support has been found to play a major role in Pt–Sn catalysts. A carbon nanotube (CNT) support can be useful to concentrate reactants in an area close to the active metal, (300) whereas supports that exchange oxygen with the reactants, such as TiO2, (297) ZnO, (324) or CeO2, (324) have been shown to dramatically affect reaction chemistry. The addition of Sn to a Pt catalyst on a reducible support can influence the ability of the support to remove surface carbon through oxygen exchange (324) and help to maintain Sn in a fully reduced state. (325) The removal of surface carbon is critical to prevent deactivation of the catalyst. For example, on TiO2, selective hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde was performed over Pt/TiO2 and Pt–Sn/TiO2 catalysts after reduction at 473 and 773 K. The bimetallic catalyst reduced at high temperature was much more active for crotonaldehyde hydrogenation. The C═O bond was selectively hydrogenated because partially reduced TiOx species contain oxygen vacancies that interact with the oxygen atom of the carbonyl group and participate in the hydrogenation. (283) In another example, a Pt–Ge/TiO2 catalyst hydrogenated citral into unsaturated alcohols where both oxidized Ge and TiO2 species participated in the activation of the C═O bond, indicating there was a strong metal–support interaction (SMSI), but at higher metal loadings the bimetallic effect was dominant. (152)
Pt–Sn catalysts have been found to be active for the partial hydrogenation of furfural when supported on NaY zeolites and SiO2. (142, 291) Pt–Sn/SiO2 catalysts were synthesized with varying amounts of Sn, and all catalysts produced furfuryl alcohol from furfural with selectivities greater than 95%. Bimetallic catalysts were more active than the monometallics but exhibited some degree of deactivation. The Pt–Sn catalyst synthesized with a ratio of 1:0.3 Pt/Sn deactivated at the lowest rate. (142) High hydrogenation activity is favored in large Pt–Sn particles because of the presence of a higher amount of oxidized Sn on the surface of the particles. (284, 311)
4.1.2.3 Hydrogenation of C═O in Other Molecules
The hydrogenation of maleic anhydride can produce many different products, but only some of the products are valuable in industry. Supported Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts showed higher hydrogenation activity than the corresponding monometallic catalysts. Pt–Ni catalyzed the reaction for the production of succinic acid with 100% conversion and high selectivity to succinic anhydride. (292, 293)
The Pt–Fe/SiO2 catalyst has been used for the partial hydrogenation of acetic acid. Adding small amounts of Pt to Fe/SiO2 catalysts increased Fe reducibility, increased activity by 10 times, lowered the apparent activation energy, and maintained the selectivity to acetaldehyde at >70%. On carbon-supported catalysts, the addition of Pt to Fe/C prevented deactivation associated with iron carbide formation. (287)
Amines are important compounds for manufacturing dyes, solvents, detergents, and drugs. A simple method to form amines is by the reduction of amides, but amides are considered difficult to reduce. Burch et al. found that Pt–Re/TiO2 supported catalysts, synthesized by impregnation, were able to selectively hydrogenate the C═O bond in N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one to form N-methylpyrrolidine, an amine. Figure 13 shows that both Pt impregnated onto a Re/TiO2 catalyst and Re impregnated onto a Pt/TiO2 catalyst showed conversions over 80%, much greater than those of either monometallic catalyst. γ-Al2O3 and CeZrO4 supported catalysts were also effective for hydrogenation of N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one, but the TiO2-based catalysts exhibited increased activity over the other supports due to the presence of oxygen vacancies. DFT studies showed that Re sites activated the C═O bond while Pt aided in the reduction of Re–O groups. The parent monometallic catalysts were not active in this reaction, indicating that close interaction between Re and Pt was critical in providing an active catalyst. (290)
Figure 13
Figure 13. Variation of amide conversion as a function of time for the hydrogenation of N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one at 120 °C, 20 bar H2, stirred at 1500 rpm in hexane using (■) 4 wt % Pt–4 wt % Re/TiO2, (●) 4 wt % Re–4 wt % Pt/TiO2, (▲) 4 wt % Pt/TiO2, and (⧫) 4 wt % Re/TiO2. (290) Reproduced with permission from ref 290. Copyright 2011 Elsevier.
Other Pt-based bimetallic catalysts have also shown increased hydrogenation activity such as Ti, (322) Zr, (322) Hf, (322) and Zn (283) for C═O and C═C hydrogenation, Ag (326) for C═C hydrogenation, and Mo (296) for CO hydrogenation. For CO hydrogenation, Pt–Mo/γ-Al2O3 bimetallic catalysts were much more active than the monometallic catalysts because Pt aided in the reduction of Mo. Mo segregated to the surface of the supported nanoparticles, and the segregation was unaffected by the sequence of the metal addition. EXAFS results showed that Mo–Mo bond lengths were near that of Pt with Mo on the surface of the metallic nanoparticles. (296)
4.1.3 N═O and C≡N Hydrogenation
Catalytic hydrogenation of nitriles is an important industrial process to manufacture the nylon monomer, hexamethylenediamine, from adiponitrile. Butyronitrile has been used as a model compound for C≡N hydrogenation because it only contains one nitrile group. In liquid-phase experiments, Siepen et al. found that Pt–Rh/AC catalysts synthesized by a colloid method were active for hydrogenation of the C≡N bond in butyronitrile. EXAFS measurements indicated that Rh atoms were concentrated at the surface of the bimetallic nanoparticles. This finding was confirmed by CO FTIR, which showed a characteristic Rh-dicarbonyl species bound to the catalyst. It was hypothesized that the Pt core atoms draw electrons from the Rh surface atoms, possibly explaining the enhanced hydrogenation activity of the bimetallic catalyst. Enhanced activity was seen on Pt–Rh bimetallic catalysts prepared by sequential impregnation and not in catalysts synthesized with coimpregnation of both metals. (282)
Huang and Sachtler (327) investigated the hydrogenation of acetonitrile and butyronitrile in the gas phase in a fixed-bed microreactor and in the liquid phase in an autoclave. They found that addition of Pt to Ni supported on NaY zeolite promotes the reduction of Ni2+ and increases the hydrogenation rate of butyronitrile in both the gas and liquid phases. Catalysts with Cu and Pt also supported on NaY zeolite show increased reduction of the metal alloyed with Pt, but the activity is lower for acetonitrile hydrogenation. Addition of Sn to Pt on SiO2 decreases the activity for acetonitrile hydrogenation but increases the selectivity to secondary amines. (327)
Synthesis of aromatic haloamines is important for the production of dyes, herbicides, and pesticides. Metal catalysts are preferred for the hydrogenation of halonitroaromatics to reduce the environmental impact of traditional hydrogenation with HCl. Liu et al. found that PVP-stabilized Pt–Ru colloids, prepared by a colloid-synthesis method, selectively hydrogenated the N═O bond of o-chloronitrobenzene to form o-chloroaniline. Catalysts were characterized by TEM, XPS, and XRD, and the reaction was performed in methanol at 303 K. The hydrogenation was most effective with particles composed of 20–90% Ru, with Co2+ added to the reaction vessel. (328) Similar studies on Pt–Ru/γ-Al2O3 for the hydrogenation of N═O in 2,5-dichloronitrobenzene also showed high activity and selectivity. (329)
Pt–Cu/γ-Al2O3 catalysts can be used for the reduction of nitrates and nitrites into nitrogen for the treatment of drinking water. A bimetallic catalyst is advantageous for this process because copper can reduce nitrates and nitrites but deactivates rapidly in water, whereas monometallic platinum catalysts are inactive for nitrate reduction. By alloying Pt with Cu, the Cu is maintained in a metallic state while the reaction occurs in an aqueous environment. Monometallic catalysts were prepared by impregnation, and bimetallic catalysts were prepared by sequential impregnation or reductive deposition of the second metal. Catalysts were characterized with TEM to confirm nanoparticle size, and CO FTIR was used to confirm the accessibility of Pt on the catalytic support. Reactions performed in an aqueous-phase batch reactor at 283 K showed that nitrates were quickly reduced on the Pt–Cu bimetallic catalyst when both metals were in close contact. Although required for high activity, the addition of copper slightly lowered the selectivity to nitrogen and raised the selectivity to NH4+. (330) Pt–In supported on γ-Al2O3 and SiO2, prepared by impregnation, were also active for the reduction of nitrates in drinking water. XPS and TPR results showed that the catalytic surfaces were enriched in In, but catalysts deactivated quickly due to segregation of the Pt and In. (331)
4.2 Dehydrogenation Reactions
Selective dehydrogenation is important for the production of chemicals and fuels, as well as for hydrogen storage. Table 5 summarizes selected reactor studies of dehydrogenation of C–H and N–H bonds over supported catalysts, including the synthesis methods, characterization techniques, and dehydrogenation temperatures. Selected UHV studies of dehydrogenation reactions are listed in Table 3.
Table 5. Summary of Selected Dehydrogenation Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
bimetallic catalyst support synthesis method reactants reactor temperature characterization techniques
Pt–Sn (332) γ-Al2O3/Spinel-Al2O3 impregnation propane flow 773 K N2 adsorption, TEM, XRD, TPR, TPO, H2 chemisorption
SiO2 Zn–Al–O
Pt–Cu ZnAl2O4 impregnation paraffins flow 855 K TEM
Pt–Sn
Pt–Zn MgAl2O4
Pt–In (333)
Pt–Ni (334) none impregnation hydrazine batch 298 K TEM, SEM, EDS, XPS, ICP
Pt–Zn (141) SiO2 AC impregnation isobutane flow 773 K XPS, AES, TPR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (335) SiO2 impregnation cyclohexane flow 543 K TEM, FTIR, XAS, H2 chemisorption
Pt–Ni (244) γ-Al2O3 impregnation 1,3-cyclohexadie-ne batch 308 K FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (336) AC cloth impregnation cyclohexane flow 523–598 K XRD, TEM, H2 chemisorption
Pt–Sn (337) γ-Al2O3 MgO MgAlO impregnation propane flow 873 K TEM, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Sn (338) MgAl2O4 impregnation, sol–gel propane flow 823 K N2 adsorption, TPD, TPR
Pt–Fe (286) SiO2 impregnation cyclohexane flow 543 K FTIR, XAS, TEM, CO chemisorption
Pt–Re (339) γ-Al2O3 impregnation naphtha flow 766, 769 K ICP, TPO, FTIR, N2 adsorption, TEM, CO chemisorption
Pt–Bi (340) Al2O3 (not specified) reductive desposition impregnation 1-phenylethano-l, trans-cinnamyl alcohol, 2-octanol batch (liq. phase) 328, 338, 358 K XPS, XAS, TEM
4.2.1 N–H Bond Scission
Ammonia is regarded as an important hydrogen-storage medium in a hydrogen economy due to its facile decomposition to produce hydrogen. However, the leading catalyst, Ru, is expensive and scarce, preventing it from large-scale commercial utilization. Hansgen et al. (14) have used microkinetic modeling combined with DFT calculations to build a model to identify alternative bimetallic catalysts for ammonia decomposition. A volcano relationship is identified between the nitrogen-binding energy on the surface and the conversion of ammonia, in which the maximum activity is predicted to be with a nitrogen-binding energy of 134 kcal/mol, (14) as shown in Figure 14. Table 6 shows a library of nitrogen-binding energies on various bimetallic surfaces, in which the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface exhibits a nitrogen-binding energy of 130.7 kcal/mol, (14) slightly lower than the optimal value. Parallel TPD experiments of ammonia decomposition are performed to compare the activity of surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111), subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111), Ni(111), and Pt(111). Consistent with the DFT and microkinetic prediction, the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface shows high activity for ammonia decomposition whereas the other three surfaces are inactive. (14) By comparing the desorption temperature of atomic nitrogen from the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface with that on Ru(0001), (341) the results show that the recombinative desorption temperature of nitrogen is lower on Ni–Pt–Pt(111), making it a potentially more active catalyst for NH3 decomposition. Hansgen et al. (253) have performed further investigations on the decomposition of ammonia on bimetallic surfaces prepared by the deposition of a monolayer of Fe, Co, or Cu on Pt(111) computationally and experimentally. The results reveal that the Fe–Pt–Pt(111) and Co–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces are active for ammonia decomposition whereas the Cu–Pt–Pt(111) surface is inactive for the reaction, consistent with the trend in nitrogen-binding energy in Table 6.
Figure 14
Figure 14. Ammonia decomposition volcano curve. (14)
Table 6. Library of DFT Binding Energies and Bond Lengths of Nitrogen Atoms at 1/9 ML Coverage on Various Monolayer Bimetallic Surfaces (14)
Although the dehydrogenation of NH3 has not been extended to reactor studies of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, the production of H2 from NH2NH2 has been reported on supported Pt–Ni catalysts. (334) Hydrazine monohydrate (NH2–NH2·H2O) has been investigated as a potential hydrogen-storage material because it is a liquid at room temperature and has a hydrogen-storage capacity of 8.0 wt %, meeting the Department of Energy (DOE) requirements of hydrogen-storage materials. Singh and Xu have recently explored unsupported Pt–Ni nanocatalysts for the selective dehydrogenation of hydrazine to produce H2 and N2 in a liquid-phase batch reactor at room temperature. Their results demonstrate that catalysts with Pt content between 7 and 31 mol % exhibit 100% hydrogen selectivity, whereas the corresponding Ni and Pt monometallic catalysts show no activity. (334)
4.2.2 C–H Bond Scission
The dehydration of alkanes is an important part of industrial processes used to produce polymers, ethers, and gasoline. Another potential use of dehydrogenation is to store hydrogen in a chemical with a higher volumetric energy density than hydrogen and to subsequently dehydrogenate the chemical when hydrogen is needed. Current high-temperature dehydration processes lead to sintering and rapid deactivation of catalysts, but by modifying Pt catalysts with a second metal, the selectivity, activity, and stability of the catalyst are maintained. (335) There is a general agreement that Pt is very active for dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons; however, Pt bonds too strongly to the unsaturated carbon intermediates, leading to the formation of coke and deactivation. Therefore, the strategy to improve the dehydrogenation activity is to alloy Pt with another metal to reduce the bonding of unsaturated hydrocarbons.
Such a hypothesis is verified in DFT calculations and UHV studies for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexene to benzene on Pt–Au surfaces. (254) As shown in the TPD results in Figure 15a, the production of benzene is enhanced after depositing 0.5 ML Au on Pt, which shows higher benzene yield than on either Pt or Au/Pt surfaces with higher Au coverages. The corresponding AES measurements (Figure 15b) show significant carbon accumulation on unmodified Pt after the TPD experiments, confirming that the Pt bonds too strongly to cyclohexene and decomposes it to produce atomic carbon. In comparison, no carbon accumulation is detected on the 0.5 ML Au/Pt surface after the same experimental procedures. The TPD and AES results are consistent with DFT predictions that the Au/Pt surfaces bind adsorbates more weakly than Pt, (254) and the results in Figure 15 indicate that modification of Pt by Au results in a more coking-resistant, and therefore more active, dehydrogenation catalyst.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Selective dehydrogenation of cyclohexene on polycrystalline Pt–Au bimetallic surfaces. (254)
Similarly, as described in the previous sections, DFT calculations predict that subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) also binds to unsaturated hydrocarbons more weakly than unmodified Pt(111). This is consistent with experimental observations that Pt–Ni–Pt(111) is more active for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexene than either of the parent metal surfaces. (15) Because the Pt-terminated surface should be preferred under the reducing environment of dehydrogenation reactions, the DFT and UHV results suggest that supported Pt–Ni catalysts should be effective dehydrogenation catalysts. This is confirmed in reactor studies that show Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 is more active for dehydrogenation of 1,3-cyclohexadiene than either monometallic catalyst. (244) The effect of bimetallic catalysts on dehydrogenation is also found to be synergistic for cyclohexane dehydrogenation over Pt–Ni/AC. Hydrogen production on the bimetallic catalysts is enhanced by 1.5 times as compared to the 20 wt % Ni catalyst and by 60 times as compared to the 0.5 wt % Pt catalyst. (336)
In addition to Pt–Au and Pt–Ni, modification of Pt by Sn also enhances the resistance to carbon accumulation. Extensive UHV studies by Koel and co-workers have revealed that the addition of Sn on the Pt(111) surface decreases the binding energies of adsorbed molecules. (235, 248, 249) The selective dehydrogenation of 1,3-cyclohexadiene is studied using DFT calculations, (251) which show that the presence of Sn on Pt(111) facilitates the first two dehydrogenation steps that produce benzene, prohibits further decomposition of benzene, and thus increases the selectivity of the dehydrogenation of 1,3-cyclohexadiene to gas-phase benzene. Other DFT and experimental studies of alkenes, such as ethylene, (248) propylene, (248) isobutylene, (248) cyclopentene, (250) and a number of C6 hydrocarbons, (249) on Sn/Pt alloys also demonstrate that the presence of surface Sn increases the dehydrogenation selectivity. Reactor studies also show that adding only a small amount of Sn to Pt catalysts improves the dehydrogenation selectivity and reduces the deactivation rate.
Addition of Sn to Pt catalysts supported on Zn–Al–O and mixed spinel Al2O3/γ-Al2O3 has been shown to increase the selectivity to propylene for propane dehydrogenation and decrease the deactivation rate of the catalyst. (332) Similar results are observed for isobutane dehydrogenation over Pt–Sn/γ-Al2O3. The selectivity to butenes increases from 53% for the Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalyst up to 85–90% for the Pt–Sn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. (335) The lower deactivation rate is due to a decrease in the binding energy of unsaturated hydrocarbons on the bimetallic particles, thereby lowering carbon deposits on the bimetallic catalyst. (283) Catalytic activity over Pt–Sn improves by pretreating the catalysts with H2 and O2 prior to reaction because of increased metal dispersion on the support. (338)
Other metals that promote dehydrogenation reactions when alloyed with Pt are Bi, (340) Re, (339) Pd, (342, 343)In, (333) and Fe. (286) Pt supported on spinel Al2O3 synthesized with Sn, Cu, and In are active for the dehydrogenation of lower alkanes because these catalysts can withstand harsh reducing and oxidizing conditions. (333) Over Pt–Fe/SiO2, dehydrogenation activity is enhanced because Pt aids in the reduction of Fe as confirmed by FTIR. Although small amounts of Fe improve catalytic performance, large amounts of Fe lead to rapid deactivation due to the formation of an iron oxide phase. (286)
Dwindling crude oil reserves and strict air pollution regulations have made reforming of low-octane naphtha into high-octane gasoline an attractive economic opportunity. Liu et al. recently utilized a template synthesis procedure to formulate Pt–Re/γ-Al2O3 with high activity for naphtha dehydrogenation. (339) The synthesis method involved a poly(acrylic acid) (PAA) template to control the morphology of Pt nanoparticles on the surface of the support. TEM and CO chemisorption studies showed similar particle sizes between catalysts synthesized with PAA and catalysts synthesized by traditional impregnation methods. FTIR results of CO adsorption indicated that less bridged CO was present in the catalyst synthesized with PAA, suggesting a lower surface Pt coordination number. Reaction studies performed at 766 and 769 K showed that catalysts prepared with PAA exhibited a 1.4–2.4% higher yield and a longer projected lifetime over commercial Pt–Re catalysts prepared by traditional impregnation. Although small, a 1% increase in yield represents a significant economic prospect in an industry that produces 11 million barrels of reformate from naphtha per day. (339) Another study of naphtha dehydrogenation was performed over Pt–Re/γ-Al2O3. (344) The bimetallic interactions were analyzed using EXAFS and both the Pt LIII and Re LIII edges were analyzed. If the catalysts were dried in air at temperatures ≤ 773 K prior to reduction, bimetallic bonds were formed. However, if the catalysts were dried at higher temperatures, the transport of Re was inhibited and there were fewer bimetallic interactions, leading to lower activity. (344)
The reforming of gasoline and diesel fuels has been proposed as a short-term option of H2 storage. Gasoline and diesel are both currently available, and using them as a hydrogen carrier instead of direct fuels could achieve some immediate reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. (345) Bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Pd catalysts supported on alumina or ceria have been shown to be active for diesel dehydrogenation. Both bimetallic catalysts not only improved the activity but also increased resistance to sulfur poisoning for diesel reforming. The enhanced stability of the bimetallic catalysts is due to strong metal–metal and metal–support interactions that change the electronic properties of the metals. These changes in electronic properties improve sulfur tolerance and overall catalytic performance. (342, 343)
Pt–Rh is another active bimetallic catalyst for gasoline dehydrogenation. Pt–Rh supported on a ceramic monolith was used for E85 dehydrogenation with 100% conversion at low flow rates without deactivation. At higher flow rates, the catalyst was unstable, and adding small amounts of sulfur to the feed led to irreversible deactivation due to coking. XPS studies revealed that the catalyst had a change in oxidation state after continuous time-on-stream. (345) Pt–Rh supported on ZrO2 was superior to both monometallic catalysts in terms of activity, selectivity, and deactivation rate for gasoline dehydrogenation. The addition of a small amount Rh to the Pt catalyst increased conversion from ∼30% to ∼70%. (346)
4.3 Reforming of Oxygenates
Selective reforming of oxygenates is a promising way to produce hydrogen for use in fuel cells, and syngas for production of chemicals and fuels, and in upgrading of feedstocks. (256, 258, 260, 347, 348) If the oxygenates are derived from renewable biomass, the reforming process is potentially CO2 neutral, as the CO2 byproduct can be consumed by future biomass growth. Other advantages of oxygenate reforming include low toxicity and low reactivity of the reactants, which are compatible with the current infrastructure for transportation and storage. Table 7 summarizes selected reactor studies of oxygenate reforming over supported catalysts; selected UHV studies of reforming over bimetallic surfaces are listed in Table 3.
Table 7. Summary of Selected Reforming Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
bimetallic catalyst support synthesis method reactants reactor temperature characterization techniques
Pt–Re (348) C impregnation glycerol, H2O flow (liq. phase) 483–523 K CO chemisorption, TPD, XAS, TEM
Pt–Ni γ-Al2O3 impregnation ethylene glycol, H2O flow (liq. phase) 453–498 K CO chemisorption, AAS, ICP
Pt–Co
Pt–Fe (349)
Pt–Ni (350) δ-Al2O3 impregnation n-butane, H2O flow 578–678 K none
Pt–Ni (351) nanofiber Al2O3 impregnation sorbitol, H2O flow N/A TEM, EDS, ICP/AES, TPR, TPO, TPD, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (352) nanofiber Al2O3 impregnation sorbitol, H2O flow N/A ICP/AES, XRD, N2 adsorption, TPR, TEM, EDS
ZrO2
CeO2
SiO2
mixed oxides
Pt–Au ZrO2 reverse micelle methanol flow 373–493 K XPS, AFM, TEM, EDS
Pt–Pd
Pt–Ru
Pt–Fe (353)
Pt–Ru (354) SiO2 impregnation methanol, H2O flow (liq. phase) 353 K TEM, XPS, H2 chemisorption, CO chemisorption
TiO2
Al2O3 (not specified)
MgO
CeO2
ZrO2
Pt–Ru (149) γ-Al2O3 organic clusters, impregnation ethanol, H2O flow 423 K TEM, XPS, TPR, TPD
Pt–Re C impregnation glycerol, H2O flow 548–573 K CO chemisorption
Pt–Os
Pt–Fe
Pt–Cu
Pt–Sn
Pt–Ir
Pt–Co
Pt–Rh
Pt–Ni (355)
Pt–Au (356) C reverse micelle glycerol, O2 flow 303–323 K ICP, XRD, XPS
Pt–Ni (171, 357) ZSM-5 zeolite colloid, impregnation CH4, CO2 flow 773 K N2 adsorption, XRD, FTIR, XPS, TPR, TGA/DTA, DRIFTS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (358) γ-Al2O3 impregnation CH4, H2O, O2 flow 1073 K FTIR, XAS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ni (359) zeolites impregnation CH4, CO2 flow 913 K XRD, EDS, XPS, N2 adsorption, TGA, TPR, SEM, TEM
Pt–Ni (172) δ-Al2O3 impregnation CH4, CO2, H2O, O2 flow 923 K XRD, XPS, EDS, TGA/DTA, SEM
Pt–Ni (360-362) γ-Al2O3 reverse micelle CH4, CO2 flow 623–1023 K XRD, XPS, TPR, N2 adsorption, TEM
Pt–Co (363) α-Al2O3 impregnation CH4, CO2 flow 873–1023 K XRD, TPR, XPS, FTIR, CO chemisorption
Pt–Rh (345) Ceramic monolith impregnation ethanol, gasoline flow 923 K CO chemisorption, XPS, TPO, ICP
Pt–Rh (346, 364) ZrO2 impregnation gasoline, diesel flow 673–1173 K ICP-AES, TPR, N2 adsorption, DRIFTS, XRD, XPS, SEM, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Rh (342, 343) γ-Al2O3 CeO2 impregnation diesel flow (liq. phase) 673 K N2 adsorption, TPD, TPR, XPS
Pt–Rh (365) ZrO2 impregnation ethanol flow 973 K DRIFTS, FTIR, EDS, CO chemisorption
Pt–Ru (366) γ-Al2O3 organic clusters ethanol flow 673–823 K none
Pt–Ni (367) δ-Al2O3 impregnation ethanol flow 673–823 K none
Pt–Ni (368) γ-Al2O3 La2O3-modified γ-Al2O3 impregnation glycerol flow (liq. phase) 623 K TPR, XPS, XRD, ICP-AES, TPO, N2 adsorption
973 K
4.3.1 Reforming of Alcohols and Polyols
4.3.1.1 Pt–3d Bimetallic Surfaces and Catalysts
Small oxygenates, such as methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol, have been studied on 3d/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces to determine the bond scission sequence of oxygenate molecules. The desirable reaction pathway is selective C–C bond scission, to produce H2 and CO. DFT calculations were carried out to study the trend in the binding energies of oxygenates on bimetallic surfaces. Figure 16 shows the binding energies of methanol, methoxy, ethanol, and ethoxy on Pt(111), Ni(111), Pt–Ni–Pt(111), and Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (264) A nearly linear correlation between binding energy and the surface d-band center was observed, consistent with the theory of chemisorption by Hammer and Nørskov (302) and with the trends observed for other adsorbates in previous sections. The binding energies increase as the surface d-band center shifts closer to the Fermi level, with the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface showing the highest binding energies. The binding energies of molecular oxygenate species are low on all surfaces, between 3 and 12 kcal/mol. After removing the first hydrogen, the methoxy and ethoxy species adsorb more strongly to the surface, with binding energies ranging from 30 to 55 kcal/mol.
Figure 16
Figure 16. DFT results for binding energies of methanol, methoxy, ethanol, and ethoxy on Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
TPD measurements were carried out to monitor the reaction pathways of oxygenates on various Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. The oxygenate molecules studied included methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol. (258, 264, 259) H2 and CO were detected from TPD experiments as the main products from the four oxygenate molecules. No other product was observed with the exception of methane, which was produced after adsorption of ethanol. (258, 264) On Pt(111), methanol adsorbed reversibly on the surface without undergoing decomposition, consistent with previous studies. (255, 369-371) In contrast, significant amounts of H2 and CO were produced from methanol reforming on the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface. On the basis of the H2 and CO yields, the reforming activity follows the order of Pt–Ni–Pt(111) < Pt(111) < Ni(111) < Ni–Pt–Pt(111).
Similar trends in the reforming yields are observed for ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol. The oxygenate reforming yields obtained experimentally are correlated with the surface d-band center in Figure 17. (257-259) In general, the oxygenate reforming yield displays a somewhat linear correlation and increases as the surface d-band center is shifted closer to the Fermi level. It is important to point out that the trend is opposite of that observed for hydrogenation reactions on Ni/Pt(111) surfaces (Figure 11). The comparison indicates that surfaces that bind adsorbates more strongly, such as Ni–Pt–Pt(111), promote reforming reactions. One would also predict that at sufficiently high binding energies oxygenates would undergo complete decomposition instead of reforming. This is confirmed experimentally by comparing the reforming of ethanol and ethylene glycol (257) on Fe/Pt(111), Ti/Pt(111), and Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces, where a volcano relationship is observed between reforming yield and binding energies. For example, on the Ti–Pt–Pt(111) surface the binding energies become too strong, leading to a large fraction of oxygenates undergoing complete decomposition to produce atomic carbon and oxygen instead of CO. (257)
Figure 17
Figure 17. Reforming yields of ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol versus the surface d-band center. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
Using reforming of methanol and ethylene glycol as probe reactions, a similar trend in reforming activity is observed on Pt–Ni surfaces prepared on a polycrystalline Pt substrate. (262) On both substrates the Ni–Pt–Pt bimetallic surface shows higher reforming yield than Pt–Ni–Pt, Pt, and Ni surfaces, demonstrating the possibility to bridge the materials gap between single-crystal and polycrystalline materials for reforming reactions.
Reactor studies of aqueous-phase reforming of ethylene glycol show that supported bimetallic Pt–Ni, Pt–Co, and Pt–Fe catalysts are significantly more active per gram of catalyst and have higher turnover frequencies (TOFs) for hydrogen production than monometallic Pt catalysts. (349) As shown in Figure 18, the bimetallic catalyst with a 1:1 Pt/Ni ratio shows the higher TOF for H2 production. On the basis of the DFT and UHV results in Figure 17, the enhanced reforming activity observed on the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst can be explained by two somewhat conflicting possibilities. (1) If the structure of the supported catalyst is Pt-terminated, i.e., similar to the Pt–Ni–Pt subsurface structure, the binding of CO and hydrogen would be weaker on the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst than on the Pt monometallic catalyst (Figure 10a), thereby increasing the fraction of surface sites available for reaction with ethylene glycol. (349) (2) If the structure of the supported catalyst is transformed to Ni-terminated due to the adsorption of oxygenates, the higher reforming activity would be consistent with the UHV results of Ni–Pt–Pt(111) being more active than Pt(111) for reforming reactions (Figure 17). The exact origin of the bimetallic enhancement can only be determined by in situ measurement of the surface termination of supported Pt–Ni catalysts, such as by EXAFS under aqueous-phase reforming conditions.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Fixed-bed reactor results for APR of 10 wt % ethylene glycol solutions at 483 K and 25.4 bar over Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts. (a) TOF–H2 (black) and alkane selectivity (gray); (b) specific H2 production rate (black) and irreversible CO chemisorption uptake (gray). (349) Reproduced with permission from ref 349. Copyright 2006 Springer.
Supported Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalysts were also found to be effective for ethanol reforming. The catalyst was resistant to coke deposition at a ratio of water to ethanol as low as 3.0. As the amount of water was increased, the conversion and H2 production also increased. (366) Soyal-Baltacıoğlu et al. agreed with these findings and found that the optimum metal loading for a Pt–Ni catalyst supported on γ-Al2O3 was 0.3 wt % Pt and 15 wt % Ni. (367)
4.3.1.2 Other Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
Pt-based catalysts have shown activity for reforming reactions when alloyed with Ni, (349-352) Co, (349) Sn, (323) Fe, (349, 353) Pd, (353) Ru, (149, 348, 353, 354) Re, (355, 372) Au, (353, 356) and Rh. (373, 374) Selective and facile methanol reforming offers a potential option for the production of hydrogen on board vehicles powered by fuel cells. Production of on-board hydrogen is an attractive option because it allows hydrogen-containing fuels to be stored and transported in liquid form, for which there is an existing infrastructure. (375) Methanol-reforming studies have been performed over a series of bimetallic Pt–M (M = Au, Pd, Ru, Fe) catalysts supported on ZrO2. (353) In these studies, catalysts are prepared by micelle synthesis to mitigate the difference of size and shape, thereby attributing variations in activity to the bimetallic effect. Bimetallic catalysts outperform monometallic Pt for methanol reforming in the order of Pt–Fe > Pt–Ru > Pt–Pd > Pt–Au > Pt. (353) High activity on the Pt–Fe catalysts is attributed to segregation of Fe to the surface of the nanoparticles during calcination due to the high affinity of Fe for oxygen. (353) The support also plays an important role for methanol reforming. Findings by Miyao et al. show that basic oxide supports improve the selectivity of methanol reforming to CO2 (maximizing H2 production) whereas acidic supports suppress the catalytic activity and selectivity. The highest activity and selectivity to CO2 are achieved over TiO2. (354)
Pt–Ru catalysts have been found to be more active for ethanol steam reforming than either parent metal; however, catalysts derived from organic clusters are more active than those derived from inorganic salts. (149) Pt–Rh bimetallic catalysts are also effective for ethanol reforming when supported on CeO2. Pt–Rh/CeO2 breaks C–H bonds before C–C bonds in ethanol; (374) therefore, Pt–Rh could enhance H2 production over alkane formation in ethanol reforming. (373) This hypothesis has been confirmed with studies on Pt–Rh/ZrO2 showing that the bimetallic catalyst reaches a conversion of 100% at temperatures above 973 K, with high selectivity for H2 formation. The bimetallic catalyst also shows improved stability over the monometallic Rh/ZrO2 catalyst due to less coke formation. (365)
Another option for reforming is to use glycerol, a waste product from biodiesel production. Reforming of glycerol into syngas in a flow reactor at 548 K shows an increase in H2, CO, CO2, and CH4 concentrations upon adding Re to Pt/C catalysts. (348) Re promotes the overall rate of glycerol reforming by reducing the binding energy of CO to Pt, which makes surface sites more available to participate in reforming. (348) Supported Pt–Re catalysts are also more tolerant to carbonaceous residues than supported Pt and, therefore, are less likely to deactivate rapidly. (322) The addition of Ru and Os to Pt/C catalysts has also shown to significantly increase the catalytic activity for glycerol reforming at low temperatures (548–573 K). (355)
4.3.2 Reforming of Other Oxygenates
Different from the small alcohols and polyols, the C═O functional group is also present in the ring-opened structures of C5 and C6 sugars. Glycolaldehyde, (23) the smallest molecule with both C–OH and C═O bonds as well as the same C/O ratio as the larger sugar molecules, is a good probe molecule to determine how the presence of the C═O functional group affects the reforming reaction mechanism. In the DFT study, glycolaldehyde is adsorbed on the atop sites of adjacent metal atoms. The optimized geometry on the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface is shown in parts a and b of Figure 19. As shown in Figure 19c, glycolaldehyde-binding energy (23) is found to increase as the surface d-band center moves closer to the Fermi level, consistent with the trend observed with small alcohols and polyols. According to glycolaldehyde TPD experiments, (23) Ni–Pt–Pt(111) shows the highest reforming activity and total activity among the Ni/Pt(111) surfaces. The activity trend found in experiments is consistent with the DFT prediction based on binding energy and surface d-band center values. On the basis of the comparison of the activity and reaction intermediates of ethylene glycol and glycolaldehyde, the presence of the C═O functionality enhances the activity on the Pt(111) surface. In contrast, for surfaces with high activity toward O–H bond cleavage, such as the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surface, the presence of C═O does not significantly affect the activity or reaction pathway of C2 oxygenates. (23)
Figure 19
Figure 19. Top and side views of adsorption geometry of glycolaldehyde on Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and the correlation between the surface d-band center and glycolaldehyde binding energy on different surfaces (23) (Pt, blue; Ni, gray; C, aqua; O, red; H, white).
Figure 19c also includes the glycolaldehyde binding energy and d-band center values on monolayer Ni supported on a tungsten monocarbide (WC) surface. The similar values between the Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and Ni/WC surfaces suggest similar reforming activity for the two surfaces, which is confirmed experimentally. (23) Such a comparison points out the possibility of using WC to replace Pt in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. More about this subject will be discussed in future research opportunities in section 5.
4.4 Other Important Catalytic Reactions
In this section we will provide an overview of several types of reactions that utilize bimetallic catalysts: CO oxidation, water gas shift (WGS) reaction, and methane conversions. At present there are few UHV studies of these reactions on Pt-based bimetallic surfaces. The overview will therefore focus primarily on reactor studies, with the anticipation that the intriguing properties of these catalysts would inspire future UHV studies to correlate model surfaces with supported catalysts. Table 8 lists selected reactor studies for each of the three reactions.
Table 8. Summary of Selected Reactions over Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysts
4.4.1 CO Oxidation
Preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO has received significant attention due to the demand of CO-free hydrogen for proton-exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs). Su et al. (271) have performed DFT calculations of CO oxidation on surfaces of bulk Pt–Ni alloys and Pt(111). On the basis of the binding energies of adsorbed CO, O, and H, as well as the activation barriers for elemental reaction steps of CO and H oxidation, Pt-terminated Pt3Ni(111) is identified as an optimum catalyst for CO PROX in excess of hydrogen. (271)
The oxidation of CO is also studied on Fe/Pt(111), with the bimetallic surface structures being reversibly controlled between FeO/Pt(111) and subsurface Pt–Fe–Pt(111) via alternating oxidation and reduction treatments. (207, 208) The reversibility between these two structures leads to the tunability of the surface PROX activity on Fe/Pt(111). (208) The bimetallic surface transformation study is also carried out over supported Pt–3d transition metal (3d = Co, Ni, and Cu) nanoparticles treated at alternating oxidation and reduction atmospheres, and the reversible structural changes are also observed. (209)
Guided by the formation of FeO/Pt(111) surface after the oxidation treatment of Fe/Pt(111) and its importance in controlling PROX, Yao et al. (396) have prepared two-dimensional (2D) FeO nanoislands supported on Pt(111) surface with a well-controlled size, density, and surface structure using a two-step process. The FeO nanoislands are characterized using STM, XPS, and HREELS and are found to exhibit distinct atomic structures and electronic states from the strong interaction between FeO and the Pt(111) substrate. The coordinatively unsaturated ferrous (CUF) sites confined by crystalline matrix and on highly diluted samples are proposed to have high reactivity and stability in oxidation reactions. (397) The confinement effect at the interface between FeO nanoislands and Pt(111) is studied by Fu et al. (272) for CO oxidation. An oxygen-deficient FeO1–x/Pt(111) surface shows higher CO oxidation reactivity than Pt(111) and other Fe oxide overlayers, i.e., FeO1+x/Pt(111) surfaces. Attempts are made to prepare the CUF active sites over supported catalysts. The Pt–Fe/SiO2 catalyst shows significantly higher CO PROX activity than Pt/SiO2, with the bimetallic catalyst showing CO oxidation at temperatures as low as 200 K and achieving 100% CO conversion at room temperature. The highly active Pt–Fe nanocatalysts are also found to show excellent stability in a 1-KW PEMFC working system and are thus feasible for industrial application. (272) The interface confinement effect and enhanced CO oxidation are also confirmed for the Pt–Ni system by Mu et al., (273) where the reversible structures are identified as NiO1–x/Pt–Ni–Pt(111) and NiO1–x/Pt(111) surfaces. Mu et al. (273) have also proposed a synergetic effect of the surface and subsurface Ni species for CO oxidation: the surface Ni oxide nanoislands activate O2 to produce atomic O species, and the subsurface Ni atoms further enhance the elementary reaction of CO oxidation with O.
The results on model surfaces are consistent with reactor studies over supported Pt–Fe and Pt–Ni catalysts. Pt–Fe/γ-Al2O3, Pt–Fe2/γ-Al2O3, and Pt–Fe3/γ-Al2O3 outperform Pt/γ-Al2O3 for the PROX of CO in a combined stream of CO and H2. (398) Siani et al. have proposed that the increased activity for CO oxidation correlates with the extent of Pt–Fe interactions and the strength of CO adsorption. (286) PROX of CO over supported Pt/γ-Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 shows that the bimetallic catalyst has higher CO conversion with higher CO2 selectivity over a wide reaction temperature range in the presence of excess hydrogen. At low temperature, increasing the molar ratio of Ni/Pt increases the catalytic activity of Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3. (377) The coimpregnated Pt–Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalyst exhibits a much lower reduction temperature than Pt,Ni/γ-Al2O3 and Ni,Pt/γ-Al2O3 prepared by sequential impregnation. (376) Alumina is a superior support when compared with TiO2 and ZrO2. (376)
Pt–Co/γ-Al2O3 catalysts are also more active than either parent metal for CO oxidation in gas streams containing hydrogen. (378) When supported on yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ), Pt–Co is highly efficient for CO PROX in a H2-rich gas stream at temperatures below 423 K. The addition of Co to Pt/YSZ results in enhancement of catalytic performance, especially in the temperature region below 423 K. Isolated bimetallic Pt–Co nanoparticles interacting with the support seem to give rise to the high catalytic activity. (379) Findings by Komatsu and Tamura agree that Pt–Co/SiO2 catalysts are more effective for PROX than either parent metal. (380) By varying the Pt/Co atomic ratios in the catalysts, a ratio of Pt/Co = 3 is identified as the most effective for the PROX reaction. (380)
Pt–Sn/AC is active for CO oxidation when the AC support is treated with HNO3 prior to impregnation. The acid treatment creates an acidic surface that aids in the formation of Pt–Sn alloys. (383) The Pt–Sn catalyst is synthesized by sequential impregnation with high temperature reduction at 673 K. Aksoylu et al. have proposed that sequential impregnation leads to higher activity because less Pt is alloyed with Sn, making more Pt sites available for CO oxidation. (382) Quantum calculations by Gülmen et al. on Pt–Sn surfaces show that Pt–Sn bimetallic particles adsorb CO more weakly than Pt alone. The studies also indicate that Sn present in the subsurface configuration strengthens CO adsorption, while neighboring Sn on the surface destabilizes CO adsorption. (399)
Pt–Mn/γ-Al2O3 with different loadings of Mn is active for partial oxidation of CO. TPR results indicate that Pt promotes the reduction of Mn to a greater extent and at lower temperatures than monometallic Mn. Catalysts with low Mn content show no improvement in catalytic activity, but CO oxidation activity increases dramatically in catalysts with compositions of Mn above 8 wt %. In the presence of CO2, catalytic activity increases and CO conversion reaches 100% for the 15 wt % Mn, Pt–Mn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. The addition of H2O to the feed stream significantly decreases catalytic activity, possibly due to steam poisoning of oxygen vacancies in MnOx. (384)
Other metals, such as Pd, (381) Ru, (400) and Re, (385) are active when alloyed with Pt for CO oxidation. Pt–Pd/CeO2, (381) Pt–Ru/SiO2, (400) and Pt–Re/SiO2 (385) all demonstrate enhanced PROX activity over the corresponding monometallic catalysts. For the latter catalyst, EXAFS analysis confirms the existence of Pt–Re bimetallic bonds. The synergistic effect occurs when the reduced Pt–Re bimetallic particles dissociate O2, which then spills over to the Pt particles to oxidize CO. (385)
4.4.2 Water Gas Shift Reaction
Water gas shift (WGS) is an important reaction typically used during and after reforming to increase the yield of H2. CO is oxidized by H2O to produce an additional mole of H2 with CO2 as a waste gas. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts are active for the WGS reaction and show enhanced activity when alloyed with Re, (386, 387) Co, (386) and Au. (388) The alloyed metal and dispersion have been found to play an important role in the activity of WGS. In comparing a series of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts over γ-Al2O3 and TiO2, catalysts containing Pt–Re and Pt–Co exhibit a higher WGS activity than Pt, but Pt–Mo, Pt–Sn, and Pt–Cu show a lower WGS activity. Reports by Choung et al. show that Pt–Re catalysts display higher activity because Re increases Pt dispersion on TiO2 and γ-Al2O3. (386) Sato et al. report that the WGS activity over Pt–Re/TiO2 exhibits a mild dependence on Re content and a strong dependence on reduction temperature. (387) Additional Re increases the amount of Re on the catalyst surface and leads to an increase in the rate of WGS. (387)
Although the metals used for WGS play an important role, the support often participates in the WGS chemistry. For example, adding Pt to a Au/CeO2 catalyst is much more active for WGS than either parent metal. The introduction of Pt to the Au catalyst leads to the formation of a partially oxidized gold species. The presence of Au and Pt also help keep ceria in a Ce3+ state, which creates oxygen vacancies and aids in the overall activity of the catalyst. (388)
Kugai et al. examine the enhancement of water gas shift by the addition of oxygen to the feed stream (OWGS). Pt–Cu/CeO2 exhibits higher OWGS activity than monometallic catalysts, but the higher activity is not as pronounced in traditional WGS. (389) The addition of oxygen to the reaction is suggested to both lower the CO surface coverage and increase the number of available surface sites to participate in the reaction. Another possible explanation is that supported Pt–Cu bimetallic catalysts are reduced more easily than the corresponding monometallic catalysts.
4.4.3 CH4 Conversion
The large abundance of natural gas makes methane an attractive feedstock for use in hydrogen production, in the synthesis of more complex molecules, and as a direct fuel. (289) Pt–Co catalysts have been shown to convert methane into C2+ products with higher conversion than the corresponding monometallic catalysts. (390) The enhanced activity of the bimetallic system can be explained by increased reducibility of Co and facilitated chain-growth by Co from partially dehydrogenated species produced on Pt. (390)
For CH4 to be used as a direct fuel, it must be fully combusted to CO2 and H2O to reduce environmental impacts, mainly because CH4 is a greenhouse gas that has an even greater global-warming potential than CO2. (401) Studies on catalytic combustion of CH4 over Pt–Pd catalysts show that the bimetallic outperforms monometallic Pd catalysts independent of the catalyst support. (392, 402) The metal particles in Pt–Pd/γ-Al2O3 consist of two phases: a PdO phase and a Pt and Pd alloy. (392, 402) Castellazzi et al. have found that the effect of Pt on PdO for CH4 combustion depends on several factors such as the extent of PdO bond formation and the strength of the Pd–support interaction. (403)
The recent discovery of large natural gas reservoirs has increased efforts in finding efficient processes to partially oxidize CH4 into CO and H2. Lanza et al. have found that Pt–Ru is an active metal combination for CH4 partial oxidation because Pt activates CH4 at low temperature and Ru is selective toward H2 and CO. The bimetallic catalyst begins to show oxidation activity at 823 K for Pt–Ru versus 903 K for the monometallic Ru catalyst. Above ∼800 K, syngas at a H2/CO ratio of 2 is produced as the favored product. (394, 395) DFT and experimental results show that Pt–Ru core–shell nanoparticles have a weaker CO binding energy than monometallic Pt nanoparticles, leading to lower CO coverage and higher activity. (156)
Pt–Ni (391) catalysts have also been evaluated for the partial oxidation of CH4. Small amounts of Pt are added to the Ni catalyst to reduce the extent of Ni oxidation. In this case, the high reducibility of Pt and the high activity of Ni are both utilized. Introduction of Pt to Ni catalysts by sequential impregnation enhances the catalytic performance by keeping Ni reduced in the presence of oxygen. (391) Characterization by TEM, TPR, EXAFS, and FTIR suggest that the catalysts prepared by sequential impregnation are mostly Pt-terminated while catalysts prepared by coimpregnation do not show increased amounts of surface Pt. The lack of surface Pt in the coimpregnated catalyst may lead to rapid deactivation from the oxidation of Ni, possibly explaining the decreased activity.
Steam reforming of CH4 encounters problems of coking and fast deactivation of catalysts. (404) However, research groups have found that Pt–Ni is an effective catalyst for reforming of CH4. (172, 358, 360-362) For example, Pt–Ni supported on MgAl2O4 exhibits self-activation and self-regeneration characteristics. (393) Without prereduction, the Pt–Ni bimetallic catalyst dissociates CH4 under reaction conditions to form hydrogen, which spills over and reduces other metallic particles on the catalyst. The addition of Pt to the Ni/MgAl2O4 catalyst also prevents deactivation by helping the alloyed Ni rereduce from Ni2+ to Ni0. At increased Ni loading the self-activation and self-regeneration characteristics are no longer present. (393)
Dry reforming of methane is an attractive process because it utilizes two abundant, cheap compounds as a hydrogen source; however, the process requires high temperatures, and the catalyst deactivates quickly due to coking. Pinheiro et al. show that Pt–Ni supported on polytype A of beta-zeolite (BEA) zeolites has superior activity and stability for dry reforming of methane, compared with γ-Al2O3 and AC supports, due to its high resistance to coking. (359) These findings are confirmed by Arishtirova et al., who find that the addition of Pt to Ni catalysts supported on a NaZSM-5 zeolite leads to better reducibility of the catalyst, higher Ni dispersion, and increased activity and stability for CH4 reforming by CO2. (357) In addition, Pt–Re (345) supported on ceria–zirconia mixed oxides shows enhanced dry reforming activity. The Pt–Re interaction reduces coke deposition, improves Pt dispersion, and significantly enhances selectivity and stability, while oxygen exchange of the reactants is facilitated by the reducible support.
4.5 Brief Summary of Pt-Based Bimetallic Electrocatalysts
Pt-based bimetallic catalysts are widely utilized for both anodic and cathodic reactions in low-temperature fuel cells, in particular PEMFCs. For example, Pt–Ru and Pt–Rh based catalysts are promising anode catalysts for the electrooxidation of methanol (405) and ethanol, (406) respectively. Pt–3d alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Similar to that described for the hydrogenation reaction in section 4.1, the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt structures are preferred for the ORR reaction due to optimized binding with atomic oxygen and hydroxyl groups. One of the challenges is to prevent the segregation of subsurface 3d metals to the surface, which is thermodynamically favorable in the presence of adsorbed oxygen, as described in section 3.1. The topic of electrocatalysts is beyond the scope of the current review; however, the basic principles, synthesis methods, and characterization techniques in the current review share many common themes with Pt-based bimetallic electrocatalysts. Interested readers can refer to several recent reviews on bimetallic electrocatalysts. (405, 407, 408)
4.6 Brief Summary of Trimetallic Catalysts
Some recent studies show that trimetallic catalysts exhibit better performance than both monometallic and bimetallic systems. For example, Epron et al. (409) have studied n-heptane reforming on Pt–Sn and Pt–Ir–Sn/Al2O3 catalysts and find that the addition of Sn to the bimetallic Pt–Ir increases the stability of the catalysts and also the selectivity toward toluene. Compared with Pt–Sn bimetallic catalysts, less Sn is needed in Pt–Ir–Sn trimetallic catalyst to obtain the same toluene yield. Aranishi et al. (410) have synthesized the Au/Co/Fe triple-layered core–shell nanoparticles that exhibit much higher catalytic activities for hydrolytic dehydrogenation of ammonia borane than the corresponding monometallic (Au, Co, Fe) or bimetallic (AuCo, AuFe, CoFe) catalysts. Pd/Ag/Rh trimetallic nanoparticles have been synthesized and exhibit high hydrogenation activity of methyl acrylate at an atomic composition of Pd/Ag/Rh = 1/2/13.5 and an average diameter of 2.2 nm. (411) The mechanism of the promoted reactivity in trimetallic catalysts has also been investigated. For example, Fang et al (412) have studied the electrooxidation of formic acid on Au@Pd@Pt NPs and find a synergistic effect between the three different nanostructure components (sphere, shell, and islands). Using FePtAu nanoparticles as an example, Zhang et al. (413) demonstrate that the presence of Au in FePtAu facilitates FePt structure transformation from chemically disordered face-centered cubic (fcc) structure to chemically ordered face-centered tetragonal (fct) structure.
5 Conclusions and Future Research Opportunities
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The examples in the current review illustrate the unique catalytic properties of bimetallic surfaces and catalysts. Several examples, such as the hydrogenation of C═C and C═O bonds over Pt–3d bimetallic materials, also demonstrate a strong correlation between model surfaces and supported catalysts, showing the promise of designing catalysts using first principles on model surfaces. The main reason for such strong correlations is that the desirable bimetallic structures for hydrogenation reactions, with subsurface 3d atoms underneath the surface Pt layer, are thermodynamically stable both in UHV environment and under hydrogenation reaction conditions.
In comparison, for other types of reactions, such as dehydrogenation and reforming, the desirable Pt–3d bimetallic structures should be the 3d-terminated surfaces. However, it is less clear whether these structures are present under dehydrogenation and reforming reaction conditions. Similarly, more studies are needed to determine the structures and their stability in other Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Such understanding is critical in extending the design of bimetallic catalysts from hydrogenation to other types of reactions. Below are some opportunities for future research in the area of bimetallic catalysis:
(1) Characterization of bimetallic catalysts under in situ reaction conditions. Because bimetallic structures would most likely change during reactions, it is critical to identify the atomic arrangement of bimetallic catalysts under temperatures, pressures, and reaction media (vapor phase or aqueous phase) relevant to catalytic reactions. One promising in situ technique is EXAFS, which allows measurements of the coordination numbers of monometallic and bimetallic bonds under in situ conditions. Recently in situ EXAFS and XRD have been combined to determine the short-range bonding environment of metal catalysts and the long-range order of oxide supports, respectively, under reaction conditions. (414, 415) These techniques should provide important information on the bimetallic structures and their stability under reaction conditions, which would in turn provide critical input for constructing relevant model surfaces in DFT calculations and UHV studies. To truly achieve the rational design of catalysts from first principles, it is essential that the model systems are as close as possible to those under reaction conditions. This is especially true for bimetallic catalysts due to the adsorbate-induced segregation and diffusion of metal atoms.
(2) Synthesis of stable bimetallic structures. The prevention of metal segregation and diffusion is a challenge under reaction conditions. For example, for the Pt–3d bimetallic catalysts, ideally one would design Pt-terminated surfaces for hydrogenation reactions and 3d-terminated catalysts for reforming reactions. Although the synthesis of well-defined core–shell bimetallic catalysts has been demonstrated for Pt–3d bimetallic electrocatalysts, (407) it is unlikely that such well-defined core–shell structures, in particular the maintenance of Pt or 3d as the surface atoms, would survive the relatively harsh conditions of calcination and reduction treatment in typical heterogeneous catalysis. One possibility to prevent the metal movement is to increase the activation barriers of segregation/diffusion by anchoring one or both metal atoms by the catalyst supports, although the strong metal–support interaction might change the electronic and catalytic properties of the bimetallic catalysts.
(3) Metal carbides as substrates in bimetallic catalysts. Another possibility is to replace Pt with a metal-like substrate that prevents the diffusion of the 3d metals. For example, Ni-terminated Pt–Ni surfaces are identified as effective catalysts for the reforming of alcohols and polyols. However, under reduction conditions or higher temperatures the surface Ni atoms would diffuse into bulk Pt, losing the high reforming activity. Recently, tungsten carbide (WC) was utilized to replace Pt because WC often shows catalytic properties similar to Pt (416) and is an effective diffusion barrier layer for surface metal atoms. (417) A comparative DFT and UHV study confirms that monolayer Ni–Pt and Ni–WC surfaces show nearly identical reforming activity for ethanol. (261) A recent study also demonstrates that other carbides, including W2C and Mo2C, can be used to replace Pt to support monolayer metals. (418-421) Synthesis efforts to extend these model surfaces to powder catalysts will lead to the production of alternative bimetallic catalysts with higher stability and lower cost.
(4) Correlation between model systems and catalytic reactions through theory. In addition to experimental efforts, calculations through multiscale modeling offer additional opportunities to correlate results on model surfaces to catalytic performance over supported catalysts. For example, recently Vlachos and co-workers have demonstrated the feasibility of creating activity maps to predict catalytic activity and selectivity of several Pt-based bimetallic catalysts using a combination of DFT calculations, linear energy correlations, and microkinetic modeling. (252, 422, 423) These types of calculations, coupled with parallel experimental efforts, will offer fruitful opportunities for the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with desirable activity, selectivity, and stability.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Jingguang G. Chen - Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, Department of Chemical and Bimolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19716, United States;  Department of Chemical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, United States;  Chemistry Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United States;  Email: jgchen@udel.edu
Authors
Weiting Yu - Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, Department of Chemical and Bimolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19716, United States
Marc D. Porosoff - Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, Department of Chemical and Bimolecular Engineering, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19716, United States
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Biographies
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Weiting Yu
Weiting Yu received her bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from Zhejiang University in 2008. She joined the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware the following fall and is currently in her fourth year. She is co-advised by Dr. Jingguang G. Chen and Dr. Mark A. Barteau. Her thesis is exploring catalytic conversion of biomass derivatives with topics of interest including catalysis, surface science, and renewable energy such as biomass.
Marc D. Porosoff
Marc Porosoff received his B.S. in 2009 and M.S. in 2010, both in Chemical Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University. He is currently working on his Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware. His research interests relate to alternative energy technologies through applications of supported bimetallic catalysts.
Jingguang G. Chen
Dr. Jingguang Chen is a professor of Chemical Engineering at Columbia University. He started his career at the Exxon Corporate Research Laboratories before joining the faculty at the University of Delaware. His current research activities include experimental and theoretical studies aimed at the utilization of carbide and bimetallic materials in catalysis and electrocatalysis.
Acknowledgment
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The authors acknowledge support from the Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, an Energy Frontier Research Center funded by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences under Award Number DE-SC0001004.
List of Abbreviations
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
ΔΦ work-function change
2D 2-dimensional
3D 3-dimensional
3d 3d-metal
AAS atomic absorption spectroscopy
AC activated carbon
AES Auger electron spectroscopy
AFM atomic force microscopy
ALISS alkali ion scattering spectroscopy
ATR-IR attenuated total reflectance infrared
BEP Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi
BF bright field
BFS Bozzolo, Ferrante, and Smith
CAICISS coaxial impact collision ion scattering spectroscopy
CNF carbon nanofibers
CNT carbon nanotubes
CO carbon monoxide
colloid colloidal synthesis
core–shell core–shell synthesis
CUF coordinatively unsaturated ferrous
CV cyclic voltammetry
DF dark field
DFT density functional theory
DRIFTS diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy
EDS energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy
Eseg segregation energy
EXAFS extended X-ray absorption fine structure
FEM field emission microscopy
FTIR Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy
FTIRAS Fourier transform infrared absorption–reflection (FTIRA) spectroscopy
HAADF high annular dark field
HAS helium atom scattering
HBE hydrogen-binding energy
HDO hydrodeoxygenation
HREELS high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy
ICP-AES/OES inductively coupled plasma atomic/optical emission spectroscopy
IR infrared
IRAS infrared reflection absorption spectroscopy
IS ionization spectroscopy
KMCS kinetic Monte Carlo simulation
LEED low-energy electron diffraction
LEEM low-energy electron microscopy
LEIS low-energy ion scattering
MA maleic anhydride
MAPR microwave-assisted polyol reduction
MCS Monte Carlo simulations
MD molecular dynamics
MEIS medium-energy ion scattering
NEXAFS near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure
ORR oxygen reduction reaction
OWGS oxygen-enhanced water gas shift
PAA polyacrylic acid
PAX photoemission of adsorbed xenon
PEMFCs proton-exchange membrane fuel cells
PES photoemission spectroscopy
PROX preferential oxidation
PVD physical vapor deposition
SEM scanning electron microscopy
SMOKE surface magneto-optical Kerr effect
STEM scanning transmission electron microscopy
STM scanning tunneling microscopy
SXPS soft X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
SXS surface X-ray scattering
TCD thermal conductivity detector
TDS thermal desorption spectroscopy
TEAS thermal energy He atom scattering
TEM transmission electron microscopy
TGA/DTA thermogravimetric analysis/differential thermal analysis
TOF turnover frequency
TOF-SIMS time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy
TPD temperature-programmed desorption
TPO temperature-programmed oxidation
TPR temperature-programmed reduction
UHV ultrahigh vacuum
UPS ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy
UV–vis DRS ultraviolet–visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy
WC tungsten monocarbide or tungsten carbide
WGS water gas shift
XAES X-ray excited Auger electron spectroscopy
XANES X-ray absorption near-edge structure
XAS X-ray absorption spectroscopy
XPS X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
XRD X-ray diffraction
YSZ yttria-stabilized zirconia
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 423 other publications.
1Sinfelt, J. H. Acc. Chem. Res. 1977, 10, 15[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
2Sinfelt, J. H. Bimetallic Catalysts: Discoveries, Concepts and Applications; John Wiley and Sons: New York, 1983.Google Scholar
3Sinfelt, J. H.; Barnett, A. E.; Dembinski, G. W. U.S. patent, US3442973, 1969.Google Scholar
4Bartholomew, C. H.; Farrauto, R. J. Fundamentals of industrial catalytic processes; Wiley Interscience: Hoboken, NJ, 2006.Google Scholar
5Stamenkovic, V. R.; Fowler, B.; Mun, B. S.; Wang, G. F.; Ross, P. N.; Lucas, C. A.; Markovic, N. M. Science 2007, 315, 493[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
6Zhang, J.; Sasaki, K.; Sutter, E.; Adzic, R. R. Science 2007, 315, 220[Crossref], Google Scholar
7Campbell, C. T. Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1990, 41, 775[Crossref], Google Scholar
8Rodriguez, J. A. Surf. Sci. Rep. 1996, 24, 225[Crossref], Google Scholar
9Madey, T. E.; Nien, C.-H.; Pelhos, K.; Kolodziej, J. J.; Abdelrehim, I. M.; Tao, H.-S. Surf. Sci. 1999, 438, 191[Crossref], Google Scholar
10Chen, J. G.; Menning, C. A.; Zellner, M. B. Surf. Sci. Rep. 2008, 63, 201[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Goodman, D. W. Ultramicroscopy 1990, 34, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
12Greeley, J.; Mavrikakis, M. Nat. Mater. 2004, 3, 810[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
13Hammer, B.; Morikawa, Y.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996, 76, 2141[Crossref], Google Scholar
14Hansgen, D. A.; Vlachos, D. G.; Chen, J. G. Nat. Chem. 2011, 2, 484[Crossref], Google Scholar
15Hwu, H. H.; Eng, J.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 702[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
16Kitchin, J. R.; Norskov, J. K.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2004, 93Google Scholar
17Murillo, L. E.; Goda, A. M.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 7101[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
18Neurock, M.; van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 11127[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
19Pallassana, V.; Neurock, M.; Hansen, L. B.; Hammer, B.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1999, 60, 6146[Crossref], Google Scholar
20Rodriguez, J. A.; Goodman, D. W. J. Phys. Chem. 1991, 95, 4196[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
21Rodriguez, J. A.; Goodman, D. W. Science 1992, 257, 897[Crossref], Google Scholar
22Salciccioli, M.; Yu, W. T.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 7996[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
23Yu, W. T.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 20528[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
24Jiang, H. L.; Xu, Q. J. Mater. Chem. 2011, 21, 13705[Crossref], Google Scholar
25Wang, A. Q.; Chang, C. M.; Mou, C. Y. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 18860[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
26Zhang, Y. W.; Huang, W. Y.; Habas, S. E.; Kuhn, J. N.; Grass, M. E.; Yamada, Y.; Yang, P.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 12092[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
27Humbert, M. P.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2008, 257, 297[Crossref], Google Scholar
28Kitchin, J. R.; Khan, N. A.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G.; Yakshinskiy, B.; Madey, T. E. Surf. Sci. 2003, 544, 295[Crossref], Google Scholar
29O’Connor, D. J.; Sexton, B. A.; Smart, R. C. Surface analysis methods in materials science, 2nd ed.; Springer: New York, 2003.[Crossref], Google Scholar
30Masel, R. I. Principles of adsorption and reaction on solid surfaces; John Wiley and Sons, Inc.: New York, 1996.Google Scholar
31Pendry, J. B. Low Energy Electron Diffraction; Academic Press: New York, 1974.Google Scholar
32Gauthier, Y. Surf. Rev. Lett. 1996, 3, 1663[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128Google Scholar
34Cabeza, G. F.; Castellani, N. J.; Legare, P. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 2006, 67, 690[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
35Goyhenex, C.; Bulou, H.; Deville, J. P.; Treglia, G. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1999, 60, 2781[Crossref], Google Scholar
36Walker, M.; Parkinson, C. R.; Draxler, M.; McConville, C. F. Surf. Sci. 2005, 584, 153[Crossref], Google Scholar
37AlShamaileh, E.; Younis, H.; Barnes, C. J.; Pussi, K.; Lindroos, M. Surf. Sci. 2002, 515, 94[Crossref], Google Scholar
38AlShamaileh, E.; Barnes, C. J.; Wander, A. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. 2003, 15, 1879[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
39AlShamaileh, E.; Pussi, K.; Younis, H.; Barnes, C.; Lindroos, M. Surf. Sci. 2004, 548, 231[Crossref], Google Scholar
40Belkhou, R.; Thiele, J.; Guillot, C. Surf. Sci. 1997, 377, 948[Crossref], Google Scholar
41Reilly, J. P.; O’Connell, D.; Barnes, C. J. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. 1999, 11, 8417[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
42Demarco, G.; Garces, J. E.; Bozzolo, G. Surf. Sci. 2003, 526, 309[Crossref], Google Scholar
43Christensen, A.; Ruban, A.; Stoltze, P.; Jacobsen, K. W.; Skriver, H. L.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. B 1997, 56, 5822[Crossref], Google Scholar
44Boo, J. B.; Lee, S. B.; Linke, R.; Becker, C.; Schroder, U.; Wandelt, K. J. Korean Phys. Soc. 1999, 35, S582Google Scholar
45Boo, J. H.; Lee, S. Y.; Lee, S. B.; Kwak, H. T.; Schroder, U.; Linke, R.; Wandelt, K. J. Korean Phys. Soc. 1999, 35, S554Google Scholar
46Barrett, N. T.; Belkhou, R.; Thiele, J.; Guillot, C. Surf. Sci. 1995, 333, 776[Crossref], Google Scholar
47Shen, Y. G.; O’Connor, D. J.; MacDonald, R. J. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. B 1998, 135, 361[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
48Dastoor, P. C.; O’Connor, D. J.; MacLaren, D. A.; Allison, W.; Noakes, T. C. Q.; Bailey, P. Surf. Sci. 2005, 588, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
49Shen, Y. G.; Oconnor, D. J.; King, B. V.; MacDonald, R. J. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. B 1996, 115, 191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
50Shen, Y. G.; Oconnor, D. J.; Wandelt, K.; MacDonald, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1996, 358, 921[Crossref], Google Scholar
51Sadek, M. M.; Wang, L. C. J. Phys. Chem. A 2006, 110, 14036[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
52Egawa, C.; Endo, S.; Iwai, H.; Oki, S. Surf. Sci. 2001, 474, 14[Crossref], Google Scholar
53Khan, N. A.; Zellner, M. B.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2004, 556, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
54Khan, N. A.; Zellner, M. B.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Lett. 2004, 95, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
55Castellani, N. J.; Legare, P.; Demangeat, C.; Pick, S. Surf. Sci. 1996, 352–354, 148[Crossref], Google Scholar
56Radosavkic, D.; Belkhou, R.; Thiele, J.; Barrett, N.; Guillot, C. J. Phys. IV 1996, 6, 201Google Scholar
57Radosavkic, D.; Thiele, J.; Barrett, N.; Guillot, C.; Belkhou, R. Surf. Sci. 1997, 377, 168[Crossref], Google Scholar
58Wilson, K.; Brake, J.; Lee, A. F.; Lambert, R. M. Surf. Sci. 1997, 387, 257[Crossref], Google Scholar
59Vermang, B.; Juel, M.; Raaen, S. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 2006, 73Google Scholar
60Khan, N. A.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 15748[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
61Tsay, J. S.; Shern, C. S. Surf. Sci. 1998, 396, 313[Crossref], Google Scholar
62Shern, C. S.; Tsay, J. S.; Her, H. Y.; Wu, Y. E.; Chen, R. H. Surf. Sci. 1999, 429, L497[Crossref], Google Scholar
63Tsay, J. S.; Chern, C. S. Surf. Sci. 1998, 396, 319[Crossref], Google Scholar
64Menning, C. A.; Hwu, H. H.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 15471[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
65Lundgren, E.; Leonardelli, G.; Schmid, M.; Varga, P. Surf. Sci. 2002, 498, 257[Crossref], Google Scholar
66Atrei, A.; Bardi, U.; Galeotti, M.; Rovida, G.; Torrini, M.; Zanazzi, E. Surf. Sci. 1995, 339, 323[Crossref], Google Scholar
67Lamas, E. J.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2006, 2, 1388[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
68Kitchin, J. R.; Norskov, J. K.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 120, 10240[Crossref], Google Scholar
69Kim, J.; Lee, J. W.; Jeong, J. R.; Shin, S. C.; Ha, Y. H.; Park, Y.; Moon, D. W. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 2002, 65Google Scholar
70Moon, D. W.; Ha, Y. H.; Park, Y.; Lee, J. W.; Kim, J.; Shin, S. C. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2001, 79, 503[Crossref], Google Scholar
71Vasylyev, M. A.; Tinkov, V. A.; Blaschuk, A. G.; Luyten, J.; Creemers, C. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2006, 253, 1081[Crossref], Google Scholar
72Radnik, J.; Wagner, B. D.; Oster, K.; Wandelt, K. Surf. Sci. 1996, 358, 943[Crossref], Google Scholar
73Holst, B.; Nohlen, M.; Wandelt, K.; Allison, W. Surf. Sci. 1997, 377–379, 891[Crossref], Google Scholar
74Colen, R. E. R.; Kolodziejczyk, M.; Delmon, B.; Block, J. H. Surf. Sci. 1998, 412–413, 447[Crossref], Google Scholar
75Tsay, J. S.; Mangen, T.; Wandelt, K. Thin Solid Films 2001, 397, 152[Crossref], Google Scholar
76O’Connor, D. J.; MacLaren, D. A.; Noakes, T. C. Q.; Bailey, P.; Allison, W.; Dastoor, P. C. Vacuum 2004, 73, 115[Crossref], Google Scholar
77Hamad, B. A.; Khalifeh, J. M.; Demangeat, C. Surf. Sci. 2003, 542, 230[Crossref], Google Scholar
78Zhang, L. P.; van Ek, J.; Diebold, U. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1998, 57, R4285[Crossref], Google Scholar
79Bastl, Z.; Pick, S. Surf. Sci. 2004, 566–568, 832[Crossref], Google Scholar
80Davis, D. J.; Kyriakou, G.; Lambert, R. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 11958[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
81Jerdev, D. I.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2002, 513, L391[Crossref], Google Scholar
82Lee, T. Y.; Sarbach, S.; Kuhnke, K.; Kern, K. Surf. Sci. 2006, 600, 3266[Crossref], Google Scholar
83Ramstad, A.; Raaen, S. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 1999, 59, 15935[Crossref], Google Scholar
84Ramstad, A.; Raaen, S.; Barrett, N. Surf. Sci. 2000, 448, 179[Crossref], Google Scholar
85Yeh, C.-C.; Lai, Y.-H.; Chu, W.-Y.; Yeh, C.-T.; Hung, W.-H. Surf. Sci. 2004, 565, 81[Crossref], Google Scholar
86Bassett, D. W. Surf. Sci. 1995, 325, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
87Pourovskii, L. V.; Ruban, A. V.; Abrikosov, I. A.; Vekilov, Y. K.; Johansson, B. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter. 2001, 6403Google Scholar
88Khan, N. A.; Hwu, H. H.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2002, 205, 259[Crossref], Google Scholar
89Fruhberger, B.; Eng, J.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Lett. 1997, 45, 85[Crossref], Google Scholar
90Su, C. W.; Ho, H. Y.; Shern, C. S.; Chen, R. H. Surf. Sci. 2002, 499, 103[Crossref], Google Scholar
91Habar, M.; Stauffer, L.; Wille, L. T.; Dreysse, H. Surf. Sci. 2003, 532–535, 53[Crossref], Google Scholar
92Goda, A. M.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 11823[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
93Gambardella, P.; Kern, K. Surf. Sci. 2001, 475, L229[Crossref], Google Scholar
94Arenz, M.; Stamenkovic, V.; Ross, P. N.; Markovic, N. M. Electrochem. Commun. 2003, 5, 809[Crossref], Google Scholar
95Greeley, J.; Norskov, J. K.; Kibler, L. A.; El-Aziz, A. M.; Kolb, D. M. ChemPhysChem 2006, 7, 1032[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
96Lucas, C. A.; Markovic, N. M.; Ball, M.; Stamenkovic, V.; Climent, V.; Ross, P. N. Surf. Sci. 2001, 479, 241[Crossref], Google Scholar
97Tanaka, K.; Sasahara, A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 155, 13[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
98Lamouri, A.; Gofer, Y.; Luo, Y.; Chottiner, G. S.; Scherson, D. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 6172[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
99Yee, N.; Chottiner, G. S.; Scherson, D. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 5707[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
100Batzill, M.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2004, 553, 50[Crossref], Google Scholar
101Smadici, S.; Osgood, R. M. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 2005, 71, 165424.[Crossref], Google Scholar
102Miya, K.; Sinsarp, A.; Sasaki, M.; Yamamoto, S. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 2005, 44, L31[Crossref], Google Scholar
103Schuster, R.; Roder, H.; Bromann, K.; Brune, H.; Kern, K. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1996, 54, 13476[Crossref], Google Scholar
104Tsay, J. S.; Shern, C. S. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 1996, 14, 2522[Crossref], Google Scholar
105Tsay, J. S.; Shern, C. S. Chin. J. Phys. 1996, 34, 130[CAS], Google Scholar
106Tsay, J. S.; Yao, Y. D.; Shern, C. S. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1998, 58, 3609[Crossref], Google Scholar
107Batzill, M.; Beck, D.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2004, 558, 35[Crossref], Google Scholar
108Panja, C.; Saliba, N.; Koel, B. E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 3786[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
109Li, Y. D.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1995, 330, 193[Crossref], Google Scholar
110Zhao, H.; Koel, B. E. Langmuir 2005, 21, 971[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
111Voss, M. R.; Zhao, H.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 2004, 560, 235[Crossref], Google Scholar
112Batzill, M.; Beck, D. E.; Jerdev, D.; Koel, B. E. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 2001, 19, 1953[Crossref], Google Scholar
113Hayden, B. E.; Rendall, M. E.; South, O. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2005, 228, 55[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
114Janin, E.; Bjorkqvist, M.; Grehk, T. M.; Gothelid, M.; Pradier, C. M.; Karlsson, U. O.; Rosengren, A. Appl. Surf. Sci. 1996, 99, 371[Crossref], Google Scholar
115Olivas, A.; Jerdev, D. I.; Koel, B. E. J. Catal. 2004, 222, 285[Crossref], Google Scholar
116Rodriguez, J. A.; Hrbek, J.; Kuhn, M.; Jirsak, T.; Chaturvedi, S.; Maiti, A. J. Chem. Phys. 2000, 113, 11284[Crossref], Google Scholar
117Fearon, J.; Watson, G. W. J. Mater. Chem. 2006, 16, 1989[Crossref], Google Scholar
118Kildemo, M.; Juel, M.; Raaen, S. Surf. Sci. 2005, 581, 133[Crossref], Google Scholar
119Oliver, C. P.; King, B. V.; O’Connor, D. J. Surf. Sci. 2004, 557, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
120Ramstad, A.; Strisland, F.; Ramsvik, T.; Borg, A. Surf. Sci. 2000, 458, 135[Crossref], Google Scholar
121Duisberg, M.; Drager, M.; Wandelt, K.; Gruber, E. L. D.; Schmid, M.; Varga, P. Surf. Sci. 1999, 435, 554[Crossref], Google Scholar
122Moest, B.; Wouda, P. T.; van der Gon, A. W. D.; Langelaar, M. C.; Brongersma, H. H.; Nieuwenhuys, B. E.; Boerma, D. O. Surf. Sci. 2001, 473, 159[Crossref], Google Scholar
123Schlapka, A.; Kasberger, U.; Menzel, D.; Jakob, P. Surf. Sci. 2002, 502–503, 129[Crossref], Google Scholar
124de Mongeot, F. B.; Scherer, M.; Gleich, B.; Kopatzki, E.; Behm, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1998, 411, 249[Crossref], Google Scholar
125Diemant, T.; Hager, T.; Hoster, H. E.; Rauscher, H.; Behm, R. J. Surf. Sci. 2003, 541, 137[Crossref], Google Scholar
126Kolaczkiewicz, J.; Bauer, E. Surf. Sci. 1996, 366, 71[Crossref], Google Scholar
127Zellner, M. B.; Goda, A. M.; Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2005, 583, 281[Crossref], Google Scholar
128Tao, H.-S.; Rowe, J. E.; Madey, T. E. Surf. Sci. 1998, 407, L640[Crossref], Google Scholar
129Tao, H.-S.; Nien, C.-H.; Madey, T. E.; Rowe, J. E.; Wertheim, G. K. Surf. Sci. 1996, 357–358, 55[Crossref], Google Scholar
130Pelhos, K.; Madey, T. E.; Hannon, J. B.; Kellogg, G. L. Surf. Rev. Lett. 1999, 6, 767[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
131Antczak, G.; Madey, T. E.; Blaszczyszyn, M.; Blaszczyszyn, R. Vacuum 2001, 63, 43[Crossref], Google Scholar
132Kolodziej, J. J.; Madey, T. E.; Keister, J. W.; Rowe, J. E. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 2000, 62, 5150[Crossref], Google Scholar
133Kolodziej, J. J.; Pelhos, K.; Abdelrehim, I. M.; Keister, J. W.; Rowe, J. E.; Madey, T. E. Prog. Surf. Sci. 1998, 59, 117[Crossref], Google Scholar
134Pelhos, K.; Abdelrehim, I. M.; Nien, C.-H.; Madey, T. E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 3708[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
135Block, J.; Kolodziej, J. J.; Rowe, J. E.; Madey, T. E.; Schroder, E. Thin Solid Films 2003, 428, 47[Crossref], Google Scholar
136Yang, X.; Koel, B. E.; Wang, H.; Chen, W.; Bartynski, R. A. ACS Nano 2012, 6, 1404[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
137Richardson, J. T. Principles of catalyst development; Plenum Press: New York, 1989.[Crossref], Google Scholar
138Albertazzi, S.; Busca, G.; Finocchio, E.; Glockler, R.; Vaccari, A. J. Catal. 2004, 223, 372[Crossref], Google Scholar
139Jongpatiwat, S.; Li, Z. R.; Resasco, D. E.; Alvarez, W. E.; Sughrue, E. L.; Dodwell, G. W. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 262, 241[Crossref], Google Scholar
140Plomp, A. J.; van Asten, D. M. P.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Maki-Arvela, P.; Murzin, D. Y.; de Jong, K. P.; Bitter, J. H. J. Catal. 2009, 263, 146[Crossref], Google Scholar
141Silvestre-Albero, J.; Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 292, 244[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
142Merlo, A. B.; Vetere, V.; Ruggera, J. F.; Casella, M. L. Catal. Commun. 2009, 10, 1665[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
143Lonergan, W. W.; Vlachos, D. G.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2010, 271, 239[Crossref], Google Scholar
144Serna, P.; Concepción, P.; Corma, A. J. Catal. 2009, 265, 19[Crossref], Google Scholar
145Chandler, B. D.; Pignolet, L. H. Catal. Today 2001, 65, 39[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
146Todorova, S.; Kadinov, G.; Tenchev, K.; Kalvachev, Y.; Kostov-Kytin, V. J. Mater. Sci. 2007, 42, 3315[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
147Chandler, B. D.; Schabel, A. B.; Pignolet, L. H. J. Catal. 2000, 193, 186[Crossref], Google Scholar
148Graf, I. V. G.; Bacon, J. W.; Consugar, M. B.; Curley, M. E.; Ito, L. N.; Pignolet, L. H. Inorg. Chem. 1996, 35, 689[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
149Koh, A. C. W.; Chen, L. W.; Leong, W. K.; Ang, T. P.; Johnson, B. F. G.; Khimyak, T.; Lin, J. Y. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2009, 34, 5691[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
150Margitfalvi, J. L.; Borbath, I.; Hegedus, M.; Tompos, A. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 229, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
151Ekou, T.; Vicente, A.; Lafaye, G.; Especel, C.; Marecot, P. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 314, 64[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
152Ekou, T.; Vicente, A.; Lafaye, G.; Especel, C.; Marecot, P. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 314, 73[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
153Schaal, M. T.; Pickerel, A. C.; Williams, C. T.; Monnier, J. R. J. Catal. 2008, 254, 131[Crossref], Google Scholar
154Veisz, B.; Tóth, L.; Teschner, D.; Paál, Z.; Győrffy, N.; Wild, U.; Schlögl, R. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2005, 238, 56[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
155Alayoglu, S.; Beaumont, S.; Zheng, F.; Pushkarev, V.; Zheng, H.; Iablokov, V.; Liu, Z.; Guo, J.; Kruse, N.; Somorjai, G. Top. Catal. 2011, 54, 778[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
156Nilekar, A. U.; Alayoglu, S.; Eichhorn, B.; Mavrikakis, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 7418[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
157Mayrhofer, K. J. J.; Juhart, V.; Hartl, K.; Hanzlik, M.; Arenz, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 3529[Crossref], Google Scholar
158Yang, X. J.; Cheng, F. Y.; Liang, J.; Tao, Z. L.; Chen, J. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2011, 36, 1984[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
159Zhang, X. B.; Yan, J. M.; Han, S.; Shioyama, H.; Xu, Q. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 2778[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
160Cheney, B. A. Masters thesis, University of Delaware, 2010.Google Scholar
161Zhang, X.; Tsang, K.-Y.; Chan, K.-Y. J. Electroanal. Chem. 2004, 573, 1Google Scholar
162Cheney, B. A.; Lauterbach, J. A.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 394, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
163Lang, H. F.; May, R. A.; Iversen, B. L.; Chandler, B. D. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 14832[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
164Scott, R. W. J.; Wilson, O. M.; Crooks, R. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 109, 692[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
165Albiter, M. A.; Morales, R.; Zaera, F. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 391, 386[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
166Guo, Z.; Chen, Y. T.; Li, L. S.; Wang, X. M.; Haller, G. L.; Yang, Y. H. J. Catal. 2010, 276, 314[Crossref], Google Scholar
167Li, H.; Yu, X.; Tu, S.-T.; Yan, J.; Wang, Z. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 387, 215[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
168Rousset, J. L.; Stievano, L.; Aires, F.; Geantet, C.; Renouprez, A. J.; Pellarin, M. J. Catal. 2001, 197, 335[Crossref], Google Scholar
169L’Vov, B. V. J. Anal. Chem. 2005, 60, 382[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
170 ICP Emission Spectrometry: A Practical Guide; Nolte, J., Ed.; Wiley-VCH: Morlenbach, 2003.Google Scholar
171Pawelec, B.; Damyanova, S.; Arishtirova, K.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Petrov, L. Appl. Catal., A 2007, 323, 188[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
172Özkara-Aydınoğlu, Ş.; Aksoylu, A. E. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2011, 36, 2950[Crossref], Google Scholar
173Ozkaya, D.; Zhou, W. Z.; Thomas, J. M.; Midgley, P.; Keast, V. J.; Hermans, S. Catal. Lett. 1999, 60, 113[Crossref], Google Scholar
174Gan, L.; Yu, R.; Luo, J.; Cheng, Z. Y.; Zhu, J. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2012, 3, 934[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
175Ciston, J.; Si, R.; Rodriguez, J. A.; Hanson, J. C.; Martinez-Arias, A.; Fernandez-Garcia, M.; Zhu, Y. M. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 13851[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
176Williams, D. B.; Carter, C. B. Transmission electron microscopy; Springer: New York, 1996.[Crossref], Google Scholar
177Griffiths, P. R.; De Haseth, J. A. Fourier transform infrared spectrometry; Wiley: New York, 1986.Google Scholar
178Smith, B. C. Fundamentals of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, 1996.Google Scholar
179Ferri, D.; Burgi, T.; Baiker, A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 3187[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
180Burcham, L.; Deo, G.; Gao, X.; Wachs, I. Top. Catal. 2000, 11–12, 85[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
181Koningsberger, D. C.; Prins, R. X-ray absorption: principles, applications, techniques of EXAFS, SEXAFS, and XANES; Wiley: New York, 1988.Google Scholar
182Niemantsverdriet, J. W. Spectroscopy in catalysis: An introduction; VCH Weinheim: New York, 1995.Google Scholar
183Aksenov, V. L.; Kuzmin, A. Y.; Purans, J.; Tyutyunnikov, S. I. Phys. Part. Nucl. 2001, 32, 675[CAS], Google Scholar
184Aksenov, V. L.; Koval’chuk, M. V.; Kuz’min, A. Y.; Purans, Y.; Tyutyunnikov, S. I. Crystallogr. Rep. 2006, 51, 908[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
185Iwasawa, Y. X-ray absorption fine structure for catalysis and surfaces; World Scientific: Hackensack, NJ, 1986.Google Scholar
186Teo, B. K. EXAFS: Basic principles and data analysis; Springer-Verlag: Berlin/New York, 1986.[Crossref], Google Scholar
187Newville, M. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2001, 8, 322[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
188Ravel, B.; Newville, M. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2005, 12, 537[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
189Rehr, J. J.; Albers, R. C. Rev. Mod. Phys. 2000, 72, 621[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
190Grunwaldt, J. D.; Clausen, B. S. Top. Catal. 2002, 18, 37[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
191Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 4351[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
192Beale, A. M.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Jacques, S. D. M.; Leynaud, O.; O’Brien, M. G.; Meneau, F.; Nikitenko, S.; Bras, W.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 12386[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
193Nikitenko, S.; Beale, A. M.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Jacques, S. D. M.; Leynaud, O.; O’Brien, M. G.; Detollenaere, D.; Kaptein, R.; Weckhuysen, B. M.; Bras, W. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2008, 15, 632[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
194Bentrup, U. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2010, 39, 4718[Crossref], Google Scholar
195Toda, T.; Igarashi, H.; Watanabe, M. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1999, 460, 258[Crossref], Google Scholar
196Wan, L. J.; Moriyama, T.; Ito, M.; Uchida, H.; Watanabe, M. Chem. Commun. 2002, 58[Crossref], Google Scholar
197Watanabe, M. Electrochemistry 2000, 68, 941[Crossref], Google Scholar
198Ruban, A. V.; Skriver, H. L.; Norskov, J. K. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1999, 59, 15990[Crossref], Google Scholar
199Alden, M.; Abrikosov, I. A.; Johansson, B.; Rosengaard, N. M.; Skriver, H. L. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1994, 50, 5131[Crossref], Google Scholar
200Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2009, 130Google Scholar
201Callejas-Tovar, R.; Balbuena, P. B. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 3531[Crossref], Google Scholar
202Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. Top. Catal. 2010, 53, 338[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
203Wang, H.; Stamatakis, M.; Hansgen, D. A.; Caratzoulas, S.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 133Google Scholar
204Mun, B. S.; Rossi, M.; Ross, P. N. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129Google Scholar
205Duan, Z. Y.; Zhong, J.; Wang, G. F. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 133Google Scholar
206Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2010, 157, B959[Crossref], Google Scholar
207Ma, T.; Fu, Q.; Cui, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Wang, Z.; Tan, D.; Bao, X. Chin. J. Catal. 2010, 31, 24[Crossref], Google Scholar
208Ma, T.; Fu, Q.; Su, H.-Y.; Liu, H.-Y.; Cui, Y.; Wang, Z.; Mu, R.-T.; Li, W.-X.; Bao, X.-H. ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 1013[Crossref], Google Scholar
209Mu, R.; Fu, Q.; Liu, H.; Tan, D.; Zhai, R.; Bao, X. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2009, 255, 7296[Crossref], Google Scholar
210Andersson, K. J.; Calle-Vallejo, F.; Rossmeisl, J.; Chorkendorff, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 2404[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
211Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 349[Crossref], Google Scholar
212Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 14520[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
213Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 107[Crossref], Google Scholar
214Ma, Y.; Balbuena, P. B. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2008, 4, 1991[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
215Escano, M. C. S.; Nguyen, T. Q.; Nakanishi, H.; Kasai, H. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 3415[Crossref], Google Scholar
216Ramirez-Caballero, G. E.; Balbuena, P. B. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2011, 507, 117[Crossref], Google Scholar
217Duan, Z. Y.; Wang, G. F. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2011, 23Google Scholar
218Mu, R. T.; Guo, X. G.; Fu, Q.; Bao, X. H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 20590[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
219Zhang, Y. H.; Duan, Z. Y.; Xiao, C.; Wang, G. F. Surf. Sci. 2011, 605, 1577[Crossref], Google Scholar
220Su, H. Y.; Gu, X. K.; Ma, X. F.; Zhao, Y. H.; Bao, X. H.; Li, W. X. Catal. Today 2011, 165, 89[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
221Huang, Y. W.; Chou, T. Y.; Yu, G. Y.; Lee, S. L. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 9105[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
222Bergbreiter, A.; Hoster, H. E.; Behm, R. J. ChemPhysChem 2011, 12, 1148[Crossref], Google Scholar
223Diemant, T.; Bergbreiter, A.; Bansmann, J.; Hoster, H. E.; Behm, R. J. ChemPhysChem 2010, 11, 3123[Crossref], Google Scholar
224Wei, G. F.; Liu, Z. P. Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 1268[Crossref], Google Scholar
225Tenney, S. A.; Ratliff, J. S.; Roberts, C. C.; He, W.; Ammal, S. C.; Heyden, A.; Chen, D. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 21652[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
226Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Power Sources 2010, 195, 3140[Crossref], Google Scholar
227Hirschl, R.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2003, 217, 354[Crossref], Google Scholar
228Murillo, L. E.; Khan, N. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2005, 594, 27[Crossref], Google Scholar
229Beccat, P.; Bertolini, J. C.; Gauthier, Y.; Massardier, J.; Ruiz, P. J. Catal. 1990, 126, 451[Crossref], Google Scholar
230Jerdev, D. I.; Olivas, A.; Koel, B. E. J. Catal. 2002, 205, 278[Crossref], Google Scholar
231Humbert, M. P.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 1262[Crossref], Google Scholar
232Khan, N. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 2003, 21, 1302[Crossref], Google Scholar
233Hirschl, R.; Eichler, A.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2004, 226, 273[Crossref], Google Scholar
234Zhao, H. B.; Koel, B. E. Catal. Lett. 2005, 99, 27[Crossref], Google Scholar
235Peck, J. W.; Mahon, D. I.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1998, 410, 200[Crossref], Google Scholar
236Zhao, H. B.; Koel, B. E. J. Catal. 2005, 234, 24[Crossref], Google Scholar
237Vigne, F.; Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Sautet, P.; Delbecq, F. J. Catal. 2010, 275, 129[Crossref], Google Scholar
238Lonergan, W. W.; Xing, X.; Zheng, R.; Qi, S.; Huang, B.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Today 2011, 160, 61[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
239Humbert, M. P.; Stottlemyer, A. L.; Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2011, 280, 96[Crossref], Google Scholar
240Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 919[Crossref], Google Scholar
241Murillo, L. E.; Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2009, 268, 335[Crossref], Google Scholar
242Medlin, J. W. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 1284[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
243Qi, S.; Yu, W.; Lonergan, W. W.; Yang, B.; Chen, J. G. ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 625[Crossref], Google Scholar
244Qi, S.; Yu, W.; Lonergan, W. W.; Yang, B.; Chen, J. G. Chin. J. Catal. 2010, 31, 955[Crossref], Google Scholar
245Zheng, R.; Humbert, M. P.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2011, 1, 638[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
246Zheng, R.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, J. G. ChemCatChem 2011, 3, 578[Crossref], Google Scholar
247Qi, S.; Cheney, B. A.; Zheng, R.; Lonergan, W. W.; Yu, W.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 393, 44[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
248Tsai, Y. L.; Xu, C.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1997, 385, 37[Crossref], Google Scholar
249Zhao, H. B.; Koel, B. E. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 18152[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
250Becker, C.; Delbecq, F.; Breitbach, J.; Hamm, G.; Franke, D.; Jager, F.; Wandelt, K. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 18960[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
251Ma, H. Y.; Wang, G. C. J. Catal. 2011, 281, 63[Crossref], Google Scholar
252Salciccioli, M.; Stamatakis, M.; Caratzoulas, S.; Vlachos, D. G. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2011, 66, 4319[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
253Hansgen, D. A.; Thomanek, L. M.; Chen, J. G.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 134Google Scholar
254Ren, H.; Humbert, M. P.; Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G.; Shu, Y.; Singh, U. G.; Cheng, W.-C. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 375, 303[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
255Panja, C.; Saliba, N.; Koel, B. E. Surf. Sci. 1998, 395, 248[Crossref], Google Scholar
256Skoplyak, O.; Menning, C. A.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Top. Catal. 2008, 51, 49[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
257Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 3578[Crossref], Google Scholar
258Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 1686[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
259Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. ChemSusChem 2008, 1, 524[Crossref], Google Scholar
260Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Today 2009, 147, 150[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
261Ren, H.; Hansgen, D. A.; Stottlemyer, A. L.; Kelly, T. G.; Chen, J. G. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 390[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
262Stottlemyer, A. L.; Ren, H.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 2630[Crossref], Google Scholar
263Veltruska, K.; Cabala, M.; Libra, J.; Skala, T.; Tsud, N.; Matolin, V. Surf. Interface Anal. 2010, 42, 555[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
264Skoplyak, O.; Menning, C. A.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 114707[Crossref], Google Scholar
265Neurock, M.; Wasileski, S. A.; Mei, D. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2004, 59, 4703[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
266Meng, J. H.; Carl, A. M.; Zellner, M. B.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2010, 604, 1845[Crossref], Google Scholar
267Kieken, L. D.; Neurock, M.; Mei, D. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 109, 2234[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
268Kim, J.; Welch, L. A.; Olivas, A.; Podkolzin, S. G.; Koel, B. E. Langmuir 2010, 26, 16401[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
269Kim, J.; Fu, J.; Podkolzin, S. G.; Koel, B. E. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 17238[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
270Desai, S.; Neurock, M. Electrochim. Acta 2003, 48, 3759[Crossref], Google Scholar
271Su, H. Y.; Bao, X. H.; Li, W. X. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128Google Scholar
272Fu, Q.; Li, W. X.; Yao, Y. X.; Liu, H. Y.; Su, H. Y.; Ma, D.; Gu, X. K.; Chen, L. M.; Wang, Z.; Zhang, H.; Wang, B.; Bao, X. H. Science 2010, 328, 1141[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
273Mu, R.; Fu, Q.; Xu, H.; Zhang, H.; Huang, Y.; Jiang, Z.; Zhang, S.; Tan, D.; Bao, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 1978[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
274Gazdzicki, P.; Thussing, S.; Jakob, P. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 23013[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
275Kuhn, M.; Rodriguez, J. A. Catal. Lett. 1995, 32, 345[Crossref], Google Scholar
276Lonergan, W. W.; Wang, T. F.; Vlachos, D. G.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 408, 87[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
277Lu, S.; Lonergan, W. W.; Zhu, Y.; Xie, Y.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., B 2009, 91, 610[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
278Rynkowski, J.; Rajski, D.; Szyszka, I.; Grzechowiak, J. R. Catal. Today 2004, 90, 159[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
279Khan, N. A.; Murillo, L. E.; Shu, Y. Y.; Chen, J. G. Catal. Lett. 2005, 105, 233[Crossref], Google Scholar
280Lu, S. L.; Lonergan, W. W.; Bosco, J. P.; Wang, S. R.; Zhu, Y. X.; Xie, Y. C.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2008, 259, 260[Crossref], Google Scholar
281Sun, K.-Q.; Hong, Y.-C.; Zhang, G.-R.; Xu, B.-Q. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 1336[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
282Siepen, K.; Bonnemann, H.; Brijoux, W.; Rothe, J.; Hormes, J. Appl. Organomet. Chem. 2000, 14, 549[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
283Silvestre-Albero, J.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Anderson, J. A. J. Catal. 2004, 223, 179[Crossref], Google Scholar
284Homs, N.; Llorca, J.; de la Piscina, P. R.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Silvestre-Albero, J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2001, 3, 1782[Crossref], Google Scholar
285Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepulveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Duprez, D. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2007, 268, 227[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
286Siani, A.; Alexeev, O. S.; Lafaye, G.; Amiridis, M. D. J. Catal. 2009, 266, 26[Crossref], Google Scholar
287Rachmady, W.; Vannice, M. A. J. Catal. 2002, 209, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
288Crabb, E. M.; Marshall, R. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 217, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
289Gyorffy, N.; Paal, Z. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2008, 295, 24[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
290Burch, R.; Paun, C.; Cao, X. M.; Crawford, P.; Goodrich, P.; Hardacre, C.; Hu, P.; McLaughlin, L.; Sa, J.; Thompson, J. M. J. Catal. 2011, 283, 89[Crossref], Google Scholar
291Zheng, Y.; Wang, X. X.; Fu, X. Z.; Wei, K. M. Appl. Organomet. Chem. 2007, 21, 836[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
292Li, J.; Tian, W. P.; Shi, L. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 565[Crossref], Google Scholar
293Li, J.; Tian, W. P.; Wang, X.; Shi, L. Chem. Eng. J. 2011, 175, 417[Crossref], Google Scholar
294Guczi, L.; Bazin, D. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 188, 163[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
295Guczi, L.; Bazin, D.; Kovacs, I.; Borko, L.; Schay, Z.; Lynch, J.; Parent, P.; Lafon, C.; Stefler, G.; Koppany, Z.; Sajo, I. Top. Catal. 2002, 20, 129[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
296Choi, S. H.; Lee, J. S. J. Catal. 1997, 167, 364[Crossref], Google Scholar
297Ismagilov, Z. R.; Matus, E. V.; Yakutova, A. M.; Protasova, L. N.; Ismagilov, I. Z.; Kerzhentsev, M. A.; Rebrov, E. V.; Schouten, J. C. Catal. Today 2009, 147, S81[Crossref], Google Scholar
298Tsang, S. C.; Cailuo, N.; Oduro, W.; Kong, A. T. S.; Clifton, L.; Yu, K. M. K.; Thiebaut, B.; Cookson, J.; Bishop, P. ACS Nano 2008, 2, 2547[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
299Santori, G. F.; Casella, M. L.; Siri, G. J.; Aduriz, H. R.; Ferretti, O. A. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2002, 75, 225[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
300Castillejos, E.; Jahjah, M.; Favier, I.; Orejón, A.; Pradel, C.; Teuma, E.; Masdeu-Bultó, A. M.; Serp, P.; Gómez, M. ChemCatChem 2012, 4, 118[Crossref], Google Scholar
301Zheng, R.; Porosoff, M. D.; Weiner, J. L.; Lu, S.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2012, 419–420, 126[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
302Hammer, B.; Nørskov, J. K. Adv. Catal. 2000, 45, 71[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
303Shu, Y. Y.; Murillo, L. E.; Bosco, J. P.; Huang, W.; Frenkel, A. I.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 339, 169[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
304Sedlacek, J.; Hilaire, L.; Legare, P.; Maire, G. Surf. Sci. 1982, 115, 541[Crossref], Google Scholar
305Arenas-Alatorre, J.; Avalos-Borja, M.; Diaz, G. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2002, 189, 7[Crossref], Google Scholar
306Goda, A. M.; Neurock, M.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 2513[Crossref], Google Scholar
307Oxford, S. M.; Lee, P. L.; Chupas, P. J.; Chapman, K. W.; Kung, M. C.; Kung, H. H. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 17085[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
308Borodzinki, A. Catal. Rev.–Sci. Eng. 2006, 48, 91[Crossref], Google Scholar
309Stanislaus, A.; Cooper, B. H. Catal. Rev.–Sci. Eng. 1994, 36, 75[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
310Lu, S. L.; Menning, C. A.; Zhu, Y. X.; Chen, J. G. ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 1763[Crossref], Google Scholar
311Kumbilieva, K.; Gaidai, N. A.; Nekrasov, N. V.; Petrov, L.; Lapidus, A. L. Chem. Eng. J. 2006, 120, 25[Crossref], Google Scholar
312Coq, B.; Figueras, F. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2001, 173, 117[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
313Babu, P. K.; Kim, H. S.; Chung, J. H.; Oldfield, E.; Wieckowski, A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 20228[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
314Do, P. T. M.; Foster, A. J.; Chen, J. G.; Lobo, R. F. Green Chem. 2012, 14, 1388[Crossref], Google Scholar
315Maki-Arvela, P.; Hajek, J.; Salmi, T.; Murzin, D. Y. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 292, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
316Nishimura, S. Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalytic Hydrogenation for Organic Synthesis; Wiley: New York, 2001.Google Scholar
317Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Vigne, F.; Sautet, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 1316[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
318Ji, N.; Zhang, T.; Zheng, M. Y.; Wang, A. Q.; Wang, H.; Wang, X. D.; Chen, J. G. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 8510[Crossref], Google Scholar
319Lim, K. H.; Mohammad, A. B.; Yudanov, I. V.; Neyman, K. M.; Bron, M.; Claus, P.; Rosch, N. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 13231[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
320Bus, E.; van Bokhoven, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 9761[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
321Mott, D.; Luo, J.; Njoki, P. N.; Lin, Y.; Wang, L. Y.; Zhong, C. J. Catal. Today 2007, 122, 378[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
322Alexeev, O. S.; Gates, B. C. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2003, 42, 1571[Crossref], Google Scholar
323Chantaravitoon, P.; Chavadej, S.; Schwank, J. Chem. Eng. J. 2004, 98, 99[Crossref], Google Scholar
324Mueller, S. G.; Stallbaumer, P. J.; Slade, D. A.; Stagg-Williams, S. M. Catal. Lett. 2005, 103, 69[Crossref], Google Scholar
325Tang, X. L.; Zhang, B. C.; Li, Y.; Xu, Y.; Xin, Q.; Shen, W. J. J. Mol. Catal. A:Chem. 2005, 235, 122[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
326Schaal, M. T.; Hyman, M. P.; Rangan, M.; Ma, S.; Williams, C. T.; Monnier, J. R.; Medlin, J. W. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 690[Crossref], Google Scholar
327Huang, Y. Y.; Sachtler, W. M. H. J. Catal. 1999, 188, 215[Crossref], Google Scholar
328Liu, M. H.; Yu, W. Y.; Liu, H. F.; Zheng, J. M. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 1999, 214, 231[Crossref], Google Scholar
329Liu, X. M.; Chen, J. R.; Zhao, S. L.; Li, X. J. Chin. J. Catal. 2005, 26, 323Google Scholar
330Epron, F.; Gauthard, F.; Pineda, C.; Barbier, J. J. Catal. 2001, 198, 309[Crossref], Google Scholar
331Marchesini, F. A.; Irusta, S.; Querini, C.; Miro, E. Catal. Commun. 2008, 9, 1021[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
332Kaneko, S.; Arakawa, T.; Ohshima, M.-a.; Kurokawa, H.; Miura, H. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 356, 80[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
333Pakhomov, N. A. Kinet. Catal. 2001, 42, 334[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
334Singh, S. K.; Xu, Q. A. Inorg. Chem. 2010, 49, 6148[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
335Siri, G. J.; Ramallo-Lopez, J. M.; Casella, M. L.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Requejo, F. G.; Ferretti, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 278, 239[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
336Biniwale, R. B.; Kariya, N.; Ichikawa, M. Catal. Lett. 2005, 105, 83[Crossref], Google Scholar
337Bednarova, L.; Lyman, C. E.; Rytter, E.; Holmen, A. J. Catal. 2002, 211, 335[Crossref], Google Scholar
338Salmones, J.; Wang, J. A.; Galicia, J. A.; Aguilar-Rios, G. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2002, 184, 203[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
339Liu, C. K.; Zhu, Q.; Wu, Z. H.; Zhou, Z. H.; Bhargava, G. R.; Parasher, S.; Rueter, M.; Zhou, B.; Chen, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 390, 19[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
340Keresszegi, C.; Mallat, T.; Grunwaldt, J. D.; Baiker, A. J. Catal. 2004, 225, 138[Crossref], Google Scholar
341Dietrich, H.; Jacobi, K.; Ertl, G. J. Chem. Phys. 1996, 105, 8944[Crossref], Google Scholar
342Cheekatamarla, P. K.; Lane, A. M. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2005, 30, 1277[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
343Cheekatamarla, P. K.; Lane, A. M. J. Power Sources 2006, 153, 157[Crossref], Google Scholar
344Ronning, M.; Gjervan, T.; Prestvik, R.; Nicholson, D. G.; Holmen, A. J. Catal. 2001, 204, 292[Crossref], Google Scholar
345Simson, A.; Farrauto, R.; Castaldi, M. Appl. Catal., B 2011, 106, 295[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
346Kaila, R. K.; Gutierrez, A.; Slioor, R.; Kemell, M.; Leskela, M.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., B 2008, 84, 223[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
347Yuan, L. X.; Chen, Y. Q.; Song, C. F.; Ye, T. Q.; Guo, Q. X.; Zhu, Q. S.; Torimoto, Y.; Li, Q. X. Chem. Commun. 2008, 5215[Crossref], Google Scholar
348Kunkes, E. L.; Simonetti, D. A.; Dumesic, J. A.; Pyrz, W. D.; Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G.; Buttrey, D. J. J. Catal. 2008, 260, 164[Crossref], Google Scholar
349Huber, G. W.; Shabaker, J. W.; Evans, S. T.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., B 2006, 62, 226[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
350Avci, A. K.; Trimm, D. L.; Aksoylu, A. E.; Onsan, Z. I. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 258, 235[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
351Tanksale, A.; Beltramini, J. N.; Dumesic, J. A.; Lu, G. Q. J. Catal. 2008, 258, 366[Crossref], Google Scholar
352Tanksale, A.; Zhou, C. H.; Beltramini, J. N.; Lu, G. Q. J. Inclusion Phenom. Macrocyclic Chem. 2009, 65, 83[Crossref], Google Scholar
353Croy, J. R.; Mostafa, S.; Hickman, L.; Heinrich, H.; Cuenya, B. R. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 350, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
354Miyao, T.; Yamauchi, M.; Narita, H.; Naito, S. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 299, 285[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
355Kunkes, E. L.; Soares, R. R.; Simonetti, D. A.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., B 2009, 90, 693[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
356Bianchi, C. L.; Canton, P.; Dimitratos, N.; Porta, F.; Prati, L. Catal. Today 2005, 102, 203[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
357Arishtirova, K.; Pawelec, B.; Nikolov, R. N.; Fierro, L. G.; Damyanova, S. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2007, 91, 241[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
358Mukainakano, Y.; Yoshida, K.; Kado, S.; Okumura, K.; Kunimori, K.; Tomishige, K. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2008, 63, 4891[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
359Pinheiro, A. N.; Valentini, A.; Sasaki, J. M.; Oliveira, A. C. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 355, 156[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
360Garcia-Dieguez, M.; Finocchio, E.; Larrubia, M. A.; Alemany, L. J.; Busca, G. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 11[Crossref], Google Scholar
361Garcia-Dieguez, M.; Pieta, I. S.; Herrera, M. C.; Larrubia, M. A.; Alemany, L. J. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 377, 191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
362Garcia-Dieguez, M.; Pieta, I. S.; Herrera, M. C.; Larrubia, M. A.; Alemany, L. J. J. Catal. 2010, 270, 136[Crossref], Google Scholar
363Tang, S.; Lin, J.; Tan, K. L. Surf. Interface Anal. 1999, 28, 155[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
364Kaila, R. K.; Gutierrez, A.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., B 2008, 84, 324[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
365Gutierrez, A.; Karinen, R.; Airaksinen, S.; Kaila, R.; Krause, A. O. I. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2011, 36, 8967[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
366Orucu, E.; Gokaliler, F.; Aksoylu, A. E.; Onsan, Z. I. Catal. Lett. 2008, 120, 198[Crossref], Google Scholar
367Soyal-Baltacıoğlu, F.; Aksoylu, A. E.; Onsan, Z. I. Catal. Today 2008, 138, 183[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
368Iriondo, A.; Cambra, J. F.; Barrio, V. L.; Guemez, M. B.; Arias, P. L.; Sanchez-Sanchez, M. C.; Navarro, R. M.; Fierro, J. L. G. Appl. Catal., B 2011, 106, 83[CAS], Google Scholar
369Akhter, S.; White, J. M. Surf. Sci. 1986, 167, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
370Diekhöner, L.; Butler, D. A.; Baurichter, A.; Luntz, A. C. Surf. Sci. 1998, 409, 384[Crossref], Google Scholar
371Gibson, K. D.; Dubois, L. H. Surf. Sci. 1990, 233, 59[Crossref], Google Scholar
372Anderson, J. A.; Fernandez-Garcia, M. Chem. Eng. Res. Des. 2000, 78, 935[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
373Ni, M.; Leung, D. Y. C.; Leung, M. K. H. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2007, 32, 3238[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
374Sheng, P. Y.; Chiu, W. W.; Yee, A.; Morrison, S. J.; Idriss, H. Catal. Today 2007, 129, 313[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
375Agrawal, R.; Singh, N. R.; Ribeiro, F. H.; Delgass, W. N. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2007, 104, 4828[Crossref], Google Scholar
376Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Seo, K. W.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Catal. Lett. 2006, 110, 275[Crossref], Google Scholar
377Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Seo, K. W.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Korean J. Chem. Eng. 2006, 23, 182[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
378Snytnikov, P. V.; Yusenko, K. V.; Korenev, S. V.; Shubin, Y. V.; Sobyanin, V. A. Kinet. Catal. 2007, 48, 276[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
379Ko, E. Y.; Park, E. D.; Lee, H. C.; Lee, D.; Kim, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 734[Crossref], Google Scholar
380Komatsu, T.; Tamura, A. J. Catal. 2008, 258, 306[Crossref], Google Scholar
381Parinyaswan, A.; Pongstabodee, S.; Luengnaruemitchai, A. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2006, 31, 1942[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
382Aksoylu, A. E.; Freitas, M. M. A.; Figueiredo, J. L. Catal. Today 2000, 62, 337[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
383Caglayan, B. S.; Soykal, I. I.; Aksoylu, A. E. Appl. Catal., B 2011, 106, 540[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
384Ayastuy, J. L.; Gonzalez-Marcos, M. P.; Gonzalez-Velasco, J. R.; Gutierrez-Ortiz, M. A. Appl. Catal., B 2007, 70, 532[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
385Ebashi, T.; Ishida, Y.; Nakagawa, Y.; Ito, S.-i.; Kubota, T.; Tomishige, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 6518[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
386Choung, S. Y.; Ferrandon, M.; Krause, T. Catal. Today 2005, 99, 257[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
387Sato, Y.; Terada, K.; Hasegawa, S.; Miyao, T.; Naito, S. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 296, 80[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
388Yu, Q.; Chen, W.; Li, Y.; Jin, M.; Suo, Z. Catal. Today 2010, 158, 324[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
389Kugai, J.; Miller, J. T.; Guo, N.; Song, C. J. Catal. 2011, 277, 46[Crossref], Google Scholar
390Borko, L.; Guczi, L. Top. Catal. 2006, 39, 34[Crossref], Google Scholar
391Li, B. T.; Kado, S.; Mukainakano, Y.; Miyazawa, T.; Miyao, T.; Naito, S.; Okumura, K.; Kunimori, K.; Tomishige, K. J. Catal. 2007, 245, 144[Crossref], Google Scholar
392Persson, K.; Ersson, A.; Colussi, S.; Trovarelli, A.; Jaras, S. G. Appl. Catal., B 2006, 66, 175[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
393Horiuchi, C. M.; Rangan, M.; Israel, B. M.; Medlin, J. W. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 14900[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
394Lanza, R.; Canu, P.; Jaeras, S. G. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 348, 221[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
395Lanza, R.; Canu, P.; Jaras, S. G. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 375, 92[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
396Yao, Y.; Fu, Q.; Wang, Z.; Tan, D.; Bao, X. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 17069[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
397Zecchina, A.; Rivallan, M.; Berlier, G.; Lamberti, C.; Ricchiardi, G. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2007, 9, 3483[Crossref], Google Scholar
398Yin, J.; Wang, J.; Zhang, T.; Wang, X. Catal. Lett. 2008, 125, 76[Crossref], Google Scholar
399Gülmen, M. A.; Sumer, A.; Aksoylu, A. E. Surf. Sci. 2006, 600, 4909[Crossref], Google Scholar
400Chin, S. Y.; Alexeev, O. S.; Amiridis, M. D. J. Catal. 2006, 243, 329[Crossref], Google Scholar
401Jain, A. K.; Briegleb, B. P.; Minschwaner, K.; Wuebbles, D. J. J. Geophys. Res., [Atmos.] 2000, 105, 20773[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
402Persson, K.; Jansson, K.; Jaras, S. G. J. Catal. 2007, 245, 401[Crossref], Google Scholar
403Castellazzi, P.; Groppi, G.; Forzatti, P. Appl. Catal., B 2010, 95, 303[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
404Hou, Z. Y.; Yokota, O.; Tanaka, T.; Yashima, T. Catal. Lett. 2003, 89, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
405Zhao, X.; Yin, M.; Ma, L.; Liang, L.; Liu, C.; Liao, J.; Lu, T.; Xing, W. Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 2736[Crossref], Google Scholar
406Kowal, A.; Li, M.; Shao, M.; Sasaki, K.; Vukmirovic, M. B.; Zhang, J.; Marinkovic, N. S.; Liu, P.; Frenkel, A. I.; Adzic, R. R. Nat. Mater. 2009, 8, 325[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
407Strasser, P.; Koh, S.; Anniyev, T.; Greeley, J.; More, K.; Yu, C.; Liu, Z.; Kaya, S.; Nordlund, D.; Ogasawara, H.; Toney, M. F.; Nilsson, A. Nat. Chem. 2010, 2, 454[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
408Stephens, I. E. L.; Bondarenko, A. S.; Gronbjerg, U.; Rossmeisl, J.; Chorkendorff, I. Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 6744[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
409Epron, F.; Carnevillier, C.; Marecot, P. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 295, 157[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
410Aranishi, K.; Jiang, H. L.; Akita, T.; Haruta, M.; Xu, Q. Nano Res. 2011, 4, 1233[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
411Matsushita, T.; Shiraishi, Y.; Horiuchi, S.; Toshima, N. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 2007, 80, 1217[Crossref], Google Scholar
412Fang, P. P.; Duan, S.; Lin, X. D.; Anema, J. R.; Li, J. F.; Buriez, O.; Ding, Y.; Fan, F. R.; Wu, D. Y.; Ren, B.; Wang, Z. L.; Amatore, C.; Tian, Z. Q. Chem. Sci. 2011, 2, 531[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
413Zhang, S.; Guo, S. J.; Zhu, H. Y.; Su, D.; Sun, S. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 5060[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
414Frenkel, A. I.; Wang, Q.; Marinkovic, N.; Chen, J. G.; Barrio, L.; Si, R.; Lopez Camara, A.; Estrella, A. M.; Rodriguez, J. A.; Hanson, J. C. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 17884[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
415Chen, H.; Wen, W.; Wang, Q.; Hanson, J. C.; Muckerman, J. T.; Fujita, E.; Frenkel, A. I.; Rodriguez, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 3650[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
416Hwu, H. H.; Chen, J. G. Chem. Rev. 2005, 105, 185[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
417Gouy-Pailler, P.; Pauleau, Y. J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A 1993, 11, 96[Crossref], Google Scholar
418Esposito, D. V.; Hunt, S. T.; Kimmel, Y. C.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 3025[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
419Esposito, D. V.; Chen, J. G. Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 3900[Crossref], Google Scholar
420Hsu, I. J.; Kimmel, Y. C.; Jiang, X. G.; Willis, B. G.; Chen, J. G. Chem. Commun. 2012, 48, 1063[Crossref], Google Scholar
421Kelly, T. G.; Chen., J. G. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012.Google Scholar
422Salciccioli, M.; Chen, Y.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 20155[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
423Salciccioli, M.; Vlachos, D. G. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 1246[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
7
Mentioning
769
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 1025 publications.
Zhenhua Xie, Jingguang G. Chen. Bimetallic-Derived Catalytic Structures for CO2-Assisted Ethane Activation. Accounts of Chemical Research 2023, 56 (18) , 2447-2458. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.3c00348
Weerapat Li, Supphanat Anantachaisophon, Thanakrit Vachiraanun, Worachon Promchaisri, Pongpop Sangsawang, Pattarapon Tanalikhit, Somlak Ittisanronnachai, Thassanant Atithep, Passapan Sanguanchua, Arjaree Ratanasangsathien, Mathus Jirapunyawong, Siriporn Suntiworapong, Sakol Warintaraporn, Yutichai Mueanngern. Enhanced Antibacterial Activity at Ag–Cu Nanojunctions: Unveiling the Mechanism with Simple Surfaces of CuNPs-on-Ag Films. ACS Omega 2023, Article ASAP.
Emily K. Schroeder, Prasanna Dasari, Muhammad Amtiaz Nadeem, Dustin Fickel, Phillip Christopher. Controlled Pretreatment and Reconstruction of a Bimetallic Pt–Ir/Al2O3/ZSM-5 Catalyst for Increased Stability during Butane Hydrogenolysis. ACS Engineering Au 2023, Article ASAP.
Cheng Zhu, Samuel E. Hoff, Miryana Hémadi, Hendrik Heinz. Accurate and Ultrafast Simulation of Molecular Recognition and Assembly on Metal Surfaces in Four Dimensions. ACS Nano 2023, 17 (11) , 9938-9952. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c10953
Hongliu Wan, Lixiang Qian, Nengfeng Gong, Huaming Hou, Xiaomeng Dou, Lirong Zheng, Liang Zhang, Lichen Liu. Size-Dependent Structures and Catalytic Properties of Supported Bimetallic PtSn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation Reaction. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (11) , 7383-7394. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00548
Hui Guo, Tao-Tao Shi, Ji-Tian Chen, Zhao-Xu Chen. Theoretical Investigation of the Properties of Pd2Cu Intermetallics and CO2 Hydrogenation to Ethanol Catalyzed on Pd2Cu (110). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (21) , 10097-10106. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c01381
Tao-Tao Shi, Gao-Yong Liu, Zhao-Xu Chen. Machine Learning Prediction of CO Adsorption Energies and Properties of Layered Alloys Using an Improved Feature Selection Algorithm. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (20) , 9573-9583. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c09020
Lichen Liu, Avelino Corma. Bimetallic Sites for Catalysis: From Binuclear Metal Sites to Bimetallic Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (8) , 4855-4933. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00733
Yilang Liu, Xue Zong, Abhirup Patra, Stavros Caratzoulas, Dionisios G. Vlachos. Propane Dehydrogenation on PtxSny (x, y ≤ 4) Clusters on Al2O3(110). ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (5) , 2802-2812. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05671
Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Ethane Dehydrogenation over the Core–Shell Pt-Based Alloy Catalysts: Driven by Engineering the Shell Composition and Thickness. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (8) , 10679-10695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c21249
Dennis Johan Loevlie, Brenno Ferreira, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Demystifying the Chemical Ordering of Multimetallic Nanoparticles. Accounts of Chemical Research 2023, 56 (3) , 248-257. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.2c00646
Gabriele Scandura, Priyanka Kumari, Giovanni Palmisano, Georgios N. Karanikolos, Julius Orwa, Ludovic F. Dumée. Nanoporous Dealloyed Metal Materials Processing and Applications─A Review. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (4) , 1736-1763. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c03952
Hongjiao Li, Yunchang Liang, Wenbo Ju, Oliver Schneider, Ulrich Stimming. In Situ Monitoring of the Surface Evolution of a Silver Electrode from Polycrystalline to Well-Defined Structures. Langmuir 2022, 38 (48) , 14981-14987. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.2c02748
Paskalis Sahaya Murpin Kumar, Subramanian Arulmani, Hyoung-il Kim, Deepthi Koolath Ramakrishnan, Vinoth Kumar Ponnusamy, Umapada Pal, Siva Kumar Krishnan. An Efficient and Durable Electrocatalyst Based on Strongly Coupled Pt Nanoparticles on CeO2 Microspheres for CO-Resilient Methanol Oxidation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (44) , 18670-18682. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c05069
Hong Li, Xianxian Qin, Xia-Guang Zhang, Kun Jiang, Wen-Bin Cai. Boron-Doped Platinum-Group Metals in Electrocatalysis: A Perspective. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12750-12764. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04358
Qicheng Zhang, Danyun Xu, An Cai, Xuewen Hu, Xinzhe Li, Wenchao Peng, Yang Li, Fengbao Zhang, Xiaobin Fan. Chemoselective Hydrogenation of Nitro Compounds by MoS2 via Introduction of Independent Active Hydrogen-Donating Sites. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (19) , 12170-12178. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03130
Yeongjun Yoon, Hyo Min You, Hyung Jun Kim, Matthew T. Curnan, Kyeounghak Kim, Jeong Woo Han. Computational Catalyst Design for Dry Reforming of Methane: A Review. Energy & Fuels 2022, 36 (17) , 9844-9865. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.2c01776
Kazu Okumura, Hitomi Hoshi, Hikaru Iiyoshi, Hiromitsu Takaba. Formation of a Pt–MgO Solid Solution: Analysis by X-ray Absorption Fine Structure Spectroscopy. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (31) , 27458-27468. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c02486
Yang Liu, Maichong Xie, Nicholas Marcella, Alexandre C. Foucher, Eric A. Stach, Marc R. Knecht, Anatoly I. Frenkel. Z-Contrast Enhancement in Au–Pt Nanocatalysts by Correlative X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy and Electron Microscopy: Implications for Composition Determination. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2022, 5 (7) , 8775-8782. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c00393
Rajib Sarkar, Ahmed A. Farghaly, Indika U. Arachchige. Oxidative Self-Assembly of Au/Ag/Pt Alloy Nanoparticles into High-Surface Area, Mesoporous, and Conductive Aerogels for Methanol Electro-oxidation. Chemistry of Materials 2022, 34 (13) , 5874-5887. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.2c00717
Wei Hong, William A. Swann, Vamakshi Yadav, Christina W. Li. Haptophilicity and Substrate-Directed Reactivity in Diastereoselective Heterogeneous Hydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (13) , 7643-7654. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c02028
Wenjuan Xue, Jiansong Wang, Hongliang Huang, Yanran Cui, Donghai Mei. CO Oxidation over HKUST-1 Catalysts: The Role of Defective Sites. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (23) , 9652-9664. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c01022
Chi-Kin J. Tsui, Ka-Ming Leung, Yee-Yan Tay, Changzhong Liao, Ching-Kit Ho, Hei-Tung Yau, Teddy Salim, Chi-Ying V. Li, Kwong-Yu Chan. Highly Durable Pt–Ru-Doped Ce0.9Zr0.1O2 as an Effective Dual Catalyst for Low-Temperature Simultaneous Propane and Carbon Monoxide Oxidation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (22) , 9334-9351. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c01012
Tanmayi Bathena, Truc Phung, Scott R. Svadlenak, Yu Liu, Lars C. Grabow, Konstantinos A. Goulas. Oxygenate Reactions over PdCu and PdAg Catalysts: Distinguishing Electronic and Geometric Effects on Reactivity and Selectivity. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5766-5775. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00561
Francisco Zaera. Designing Sites in Heterogeneous Catalysis: Are We Reaching Selectivities Competitive With Those of Homogeneous Catalysts?. Chemical Reviews 2022, 122 (9) , 8594-8757. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00905
Jennifer D. Lee, Jeffrey B. Miller, Anna V. Shneidman, Lixin Sun, Jason F. Weaver, Joanna Aizenberg, Juergen Biener, J. Anibal Boscoboinik, Alexandre C. Foucher, Anatoly I. Frenkel, Jessi E. S. van der Hoeven, Boris Kozinsky, Nicholas Marcella, Matthew M. Montemore, Hio Tong Ngan, Christopher R. O’Connor, Cameron J. Owen, Dario J. Stacchiola, Eric A. Stach, Robert J. Madix, Philippe Sautet, Cynthia M. Friend. Dilute Alloys Based on Au, Ag, or Cu for Efficient Catalysis: From Synthesis to Active Sites. Chemical Reviews 2022, 122 (9) , 8758-8808. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00967
Cameron L. Roman, Natalia da Silva Moura, Scott Wicker, Kerry M. Dooley, James A. Dorman. Induction Heating of Magnetically Susceptible Nanoparticles for Enhanced Hydrogenation of Oleic Acid. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2022, 5 (3) , 3676-3685. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.1c04351
Arunendu Das, Shyama Charan Mandal, Akhil S. Nair, Biswarup Pathak. Computational Screening of First-Row Transition-Metal Based Alloy Catalysts─Ligand Induced N2 Reduction Reaction Selectivity. ACS Physical Chemistry Au 2022, 2 (2) , 125-135. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphyschemau.1c00021
Changhao Xu, Yu Zhang, Qianchi Feng, Rongda Liang, Chuanshan Tian. Self-Suppression of the Giant Coherent Anti-Stokes Raman Scattering Background for Detection of Buried Interfaces with Submonolayer Sensitivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2022, 13 (6) , 1465-1472. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c00055
Hongbo Wu, Chang Liu, Wei Guo. Computational Screening of Bimetallic Catalysts: Application to Ammonia Decomposition. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (1) , 192-202. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c08091
Alexandre C. Foucher, Nicholas Marcella, Jennifer D. Lee, Daniel J. Rosen, Ryan Tappero, Christopher B. Murray, Anatoly I. Frenkel, Eric A. Stach. Structural and Valence State Modification of Cobalt in CoPt Nanocatalysts in Redox Conditions. ACS Nano 2021, 15 (12) , 20619-20632. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c09450
Pu Huang, Yafei Guo, Guodong Wang, Jun Yu, Chuanwen Zhao, Xinru Wang, Tao Wang. Insights into Nickel-Based Dual Function Materials for CO2 Sorption and Methanation: Effect of Reduction Temperature. Energy & Fuels 2021, 35 (24) , 20185-20196. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.1c03008
Jiajing Kou, Johnny Zhu Chen, Junxian Gao, Xiaoben Zhang, Jie Zhu, Arnab Ghosh, Wei Liu, A. Jeremy Kropf, Dmitry Zemlyanov, Rui Ma, Xinwen Guo, Abhaya K. Datye, Guanghui Zhang, Liejin Guo, Jeffrey T. Miller. Structural and Catalytic Properties of Isolated Pt2+ Sites in Platinum Phosphide (PtP2). ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13496-13509. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03970
Xiaoli Wang, Run Long. Thermal-Driven Dynamic Shape Change of Bimetallic Nanoparticles Extends Hot Electron Lifetime of Pt/MoS2 Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (30) , 7173-7179. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c01640
Maodi Wang, Miao Guo, Xiaomin Ren, Xin Liu, Qihua Yang. The Influence of Surface Structure of RhPt Bimetallic Nanoparticles on the Hydrogenation of Aromatic Compounds. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (28) , 15275-15282. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c03624
Biraj Jyoti Borah, Chiranjita Goswami, Yusuke Yamada, Kohei Tada, Shingo Tanaka, Pankaj Bharali. Pd2CuCo/C Hybrid with Nanoflower Morphology toward Oxygen Reduction and Formic Acid Oxidation Reactions: Experimental and Computational Studies. Energy & Fuels 2021, 35 (14) , 11515-11524. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.1c00487
Zhuolin Li, Fei Gao, Bin Zou, Zhengying Wu, Yangping Zhang, Yukou Du. Core@shell PtAuAg@PtAg Hollow Nanodendrites as Effective Electrocatalysts for Methanol and Ethylene Glycol Oxidation. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (13) , 9977-9986. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.1c01254
Tao Xiao, Peijian Yan, Kaijie Li, Caoping Yang, Hongbo Yu, Junyou Wang, Hongfeng Yin, Shenghu Zhou. Hollow Mesoporous Nanoreactors with Encaged PtSn Alloy Nanoparticles for Selective Hydrogenation of Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (17) , 6078-6088. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c00293
Rafael A. Vicente, Itamar T. Neckel, Subramanian K. R. S. Sankaranarayanan, José Solla-Gullon, Pablo S. Fernández. Bragg Coherent Diffraction Imaging for In Situ Studies in Electrocatalysis. ACS Nano 2021, 15 (4) , 6129-6146. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c01080
Jieli Wang, Xin Chang, Sai Chen, Guodong Sun, Xiaohong Zhou, Evgeny Vovk, Yong Yang, Wanyu Deng, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Rentao Mu, Chunlei Pei, Jinlong Gong. On the Role of Sn Segregation of Pt-Sn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (8) , 4401-4410. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c00639
Bofeng Zhang, Lirong Zheng, Ziwei Zhai, Guozhu Li, Guozhu Liu. Subsurface-Regulated PtGa Nanoparticles Confined in Silicalite-1 for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (14) , 16259-16266. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c22865
Binbin Cao, Lingjian Zeng, Haidong Liu, Jingrui Shang, Liang Wang, Jianping Lang, Xueqin Cao, Hongwei Gu. Synthesis of the Platinum Nanoribbons Regulated by Fluorine and Applications in Electrocatalysis. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (7) , 4366-4370. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.1c00231
Kunlong Liu, Ruixuan Qin, Nanfeng Zheng. Insights into the Interfacial Effects in Heterogeneous Metal Nanocatalysts toward Selective Hydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (12) , 4483-4499. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c13185
Chunyan Tu, Xiaowa Nie, Jingguang G. Chen. Insight into Acetic Acid Synthesis from the Reaction of CH4 and CO2. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (6) , 3384-3401. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05492
Juntian Niu, Yalan Wang, Shirley E. Liland, Samuel K. Regli, Jia Yang, Kumar R. Rout, Jun Luo, Magnus Rønning, Jingyu Ran, De Chen. Unraveling Enhanced Activity, Selectivity, and Coke Resistance of Pt–Ni Bimetallic Clusters in Dry Reforming. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 2398-2411. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04429
Junhong Fu, Jinhu Dong, Rui Si, Keju Sun, Junying Zhang, Mingrun Li, Nana Yu, Bingsen Zhang, Mark G. Humphrey, Qiang Fu, Jiahui Huang. Synergistic Effects for Enhanced Catalysis in a Dual Single-Atom Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (4) , 1952-1961. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05599
Ming Zhou, Can Li, Jiye Fang. Noble-Metal Based Random Alloy and Intermetallic Nanocrystals: Syntheses and Applications. Chemical Reviews 2021, 121 (2) , 736-795. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00436
Hao Lv, Ren Wei, Xuwen Guo, Lizhi Sun, Ben Liu. Synergistic Catalysis of Binary RuP Nanoclusters on Nitrogen-Functionalized Hollow Mesoporous Carbon in Hydrogen Production from the Hydrolysis of Ammonia Borane. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (1) , 696-703. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c03547
Joong Il Jake Choi, Taek-Seung Kim, Daeho Kim, Si Woo Lee, Jeong Young Park. Operando Surface Characterization on Catalytic and Energy Materials from Single Crystals to Nanoparticles. ACS Nano 2020, 14 (12) , 16392-16413. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c07549
Min Tang, Wentao Yuan, Yang Ou, Guanxing Li, Ruiyang You, Songda Li, Hangsheng Yang, Ze Zhang, Yong Wang. Recent Progresses on Structural Reconstruction of Nanosized Metal Catalysts via Controlled-Atmosphere Transmission Electron Microscopy: A Review. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (24) , 14419-14450. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03335
Lesli O. Mark, Wei Chen, Calley N. Eads, Deyu Lu, J. Anibal Boscoboinik, Dario Stacchiola, J. Will Medlin, Samuel A. Tenney. Confinement Effects on Furfuryl Alcohol Reactions over Porous Bilayer Silica-Modified Pd(111). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (46) , 25437-25446. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c09095
Caoxin Lin, Zhiqiao Huang, Zeyi Zhang, Tang Zeng, Runzhe Chen, Yangyang Tan, Wei Wu, Shichun Mu, Niancai Cheng. Structurally Ordered Pt3Co Nanoparticles Anchored on N-Doped Graphene for Highly Efficient Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2020, 8 (45) , 16938-16945. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c06547
Maria Chiara Spadaro, Jo J. L. Humphrey, Rongsheng Cai, Lidia Martínez, Sarah J. Haigh, Yves Huttel, Steve J. Spencer, Andrew J. Wain, Richard Palmer. Electrocatalytic Behavior of PtCu Clusters Produced by Nanoparticle Beam Deposition. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (43) , 23683-23689. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c06744
Sandip Kumar De, Sourabh Kumar, Sarmistha Ray, Subrata Mondal, Abhijit Roy, Gourab Bhattacharjee, Arpita Nandy, Anuradha Roy, Biswarup Pathak, Dulal Senapati. Au-Seeded Ag-Nanorod Networks for Electrocatalytic Sensing. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (10) , 9969-9983. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c01976
Zeyan Liu, Zipeng Zhao, Bosi Peng, Xiangfeng Duan, Yu Huang. Beyond Extended Surfaces: Understanding the Oxygen Reduction Reaction on Nanocatalysts. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (42) , 17812-17827. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c07696
Changlong Wang, Qi Wang, Fangyu Fu, Didier Astruc. Hydrogen Generation upon Nanocatalyzed Hydrolysis of Hydrogen-Rich Boron Derivatives: Recent Developments. Accounts of Chemical Research 2020, 53 (10) , 2483-2493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.0c00525
Manyu Chen, Yan Cui, Wei Qian, Qingpo Peng, Jiajia Wang, Honghui Gong, Jian Fang, Sheng Dai, Zhenshan Hou. Thermoregulated Ionic Liquid-Stabilizing Ru/CoO Nanocomposites for Catalytic Hydrogenation. Langmuir 2020, 36 (39) , 11589-11599. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c02153
Shuyan Gong, Yu-Xiao Zhang, Zhiqiang Niu. Recent Advances in Earth-Abundant Core/Noble-Metal Shell Nanoparticles for Electrocatalysis. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (19) , 10886-10904. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c02587
Yue Xin, Shuhui Li, Yayang Qian, Wenkun Zhu, Haibo Yuan, Pengyan Jiang, Ruihan Guo, Liangbing Wang. High-Entropy Alloys as a Platform for Catalysis: Progress, Challenges, and Opportunities. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (19) , 11280-11306. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03617
Biying Zhang, Yuchen Pei, Raghu V. Maligal-Ganesh, Xinle Li, Andrew Cruz, R. Jackson Spurling, Minda Chen, Jiaqi Yu, Xun Wu, Wenyu Huang. Influence of Sn on Stability and Selectivity of Pt–Sn@UiO-66-NH2 in Furfural Hydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (39) , 17495-17501. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01336
Boyang Liu, Diwen Xiao, Yu Wang, Pei Jia, Ning Huang, Xiaocheng Lan, Tiefeng Wang. Correlating C═C, C═O, and C═N Hydrogenation Activity with Hydrogen Binding Energies on Ni–Fe Bimetallic Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2020, 124 (34) , 18595-18603. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c04302
Konstantin Koessler, Harald Scherer, Burkhard Butschke. Phenyl-Group Exchange in Triphenylphosphine Mediated by Cationic Gold–Platinum Complexes—A Gas-Phase Mimetic Approach. Inorganic Chemistry 2020, 59 (14) , 9496-9510. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.9b03622
Xiuying Peng, Dongtao Lu, Yingnan Qin, Miaomiao Li, Yujing Guo, Shaojun Guo. Pt-on-Pd Dendritic Nanosheets with Enhanced Bifunctional Fuel Cell Catalytic Performance. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (27) , 30336-30342. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c05868
Won-Tae Koo, Jill E. Millstone, Paul S. Weiss, Il-Doo Kim. The Design and Science of Polyelemental Nanoparticles. ACS Nano 2020, 14 (6) , 6407-6413. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c03993
Xiaodan Ma, Zhe An, Hongyan Song, Xin Shu, Xu Xiang, Jing He. Atomic Pt-Catalyzed Heterogeneous Anti-Markovnikov C–N Formation: Pt10 Activating N–H for Pt1δ+-Activated C═C Attack. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (19) , 9017-9027. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c02997
Xiaopo Niu, Xiaoxue Li, Gang Yuan, Fuxiang Feng, Miao Wang, Xiangwen Zhang, Qingfa Wang. Hollow Hierarchical Silicalite-1 Zeolite Encapsulated PtNi Bimetals for Selective Hydroconversion of Methyl Stearate into Aviation Fuel Range Alkanes. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (18) , 8601-8611. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01275
Rao Huang, Jian-Xiang Bi, Lei Li, Yu-Hua Wen. Basin Hopping Genetic Algorithm for Global Optimization of PtCo Clusters. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling 2020, 60 (4) , 2219-2228. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.0c00130
Chenlu Xie, Zhiqiang Niu, Dohyung Kim, Mufan Li, Peidong Yang. Surface and Interface Control in Nanoparticle Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 1184-1249. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00220
Jing Zhu, Liangsheng Hu, Pengxiang Zhao, Lawrence Yoon Suk Lee, Kwok-Yin Wong. Recent Advances in Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Evolution Using Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 851-918. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00248
Changqing Li, Jong-Beom Baek. Recent Advances in Noble Metal (Pt, Ru, and Ir)-Based Electrocatalysts for Efficient Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. ACS Omega 2020, 5 (1) , 31-40. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b03550
Yancai Yao, Xiang-Kui Gu, Dongsheng He, Zhijun Li, Wei Liu, Qian Xu, Tao Yao, Yue Lin, Hui-Juan Wang, Changming Zhao, Xiaoqian Wang, Peiqun Yin, Hai Li, Xun Hong, Shiqiang Wei, Wei-Xue Li, Yadong Li, Yuen Wu. Engineering the Electronic Structure of Submonolayer Pt on Intermetallic Pd3Pb via Charge Transfer Boosts the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (51) , 19964-19968. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09391
Xueying Ren, Hao Lv, Su Yang, Yingying Wang, Jinlong Li, Ren Wei, Dongdong Xu, Ben Liu. Promoting Effect of Heterostructured NiO/Ni on Pt Nanocatalysts toward Catalytic Hydrolysis of Ammonia Borane. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2019, 10 (23) , 7374-7382. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.9b03080
Hongbo Wu, Jonathan E. Sutton, Wei Guo, Dionisios G. Vlachos. Volcano Curves for in Silico Prediction of Mono- and Bifunctional Catalysts: Application to Ammonia Decomposition. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (44) , 27097-27104. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b08662
Zhenchen Tang, Pei Liu, Huatang Cao, Sara Bals, Hero J. Heeres, Paolo P. Pescarmona. Pt/ZrO2 Prepared by Atomic Trapping: An Efficient Catalyst for the Conversion of Glycerol to Lactic Acid with Concomitant Transfer Hydrogenation of Cyclohexene. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (11) , 9953-9963. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02139
Qiangmin Yu, Yuting Luo, Siyao Qiu, Qinye Li, Zhengyang Cai, Zhiyuan Zhang, Jiaman Liu, Chenghua Sun, Bilu Liu. Tuning the Hydrogen Evolution Performance of Metallic 2D Tantalum Disulfide by Interfacial Engineering. ACS Nano 2019, 13 (10) , 11874-11881. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.9b05933
Yueqiang Cao, Bo Chen, Jonathan Guerrero-Sánchez, Ilkeun Lee, Xinggui Zhou, Noboru Takeuchi, Francisco Zaera. Controlling Selectivity in Unsaturated Aldehyde Hydrogenation Using Single-Site Alloy Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (10) , 9150-9157. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02547
Evgenia Kontoleta, Sven H. C. Askes, Erik C. Garnett. Self-Optimized Catalysts: Hot-Electron Driven Photosynthesis of Catalytic Photocathodes. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2019, 11 (39) , 35713-35719. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b10913
Kristina W. Golub, Taylor P. Sulmonetti, Lalit A. Darunte, Michael S. Shealy, Christopher W. Jones. Metal–Organic-Framework-Derived Co/Cu–Carbon Nanoparticle Catalysts for Furfural Hydrogenation. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2019, 2 (9) , 6040-6056. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b01555
Ji-Soo Jang, Seunghee Cho, Hyeuk Jin Han, Seok-Won Song, Sang-Joon Kim, Won-Tae Koo, Dong-Ha Kim, Hyeonsu Jeong, Yeon Sik Jung, Il−Doo Kim. Universal Synthesis of Porous Inorganic Nanosheets via Graphene-Cellulose Templating Route. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2019, 11 (37) , 34100-34108. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b11124
Zhe Li, Zhiyuan Qi, Siwen Wang, Tao Ma, Lin Zhou, Zhenwei Wu, Xuechen Luan, Fang-Yi Lin, Minda Chen, Jeffrey T. Miller, Hongliang Xin, Wenyu Huang, Yue Wu. In Situ Formed Pt3Ti Nanoparticles on a Two-Dimensional Transition Metal Carbide (MXene) Used as Efficient Catalysts for Hydrogen Evolution Reactions. Nano Letters 2019, 19 (8) , 5102-5108. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b01381
Rui Gao, Quanbin Dai, Feng Du, Dongpeng Yan, Liming Dai. C60-Adsorbed Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes as Metal-Free, pH-Universal, and Multifunctional Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction, Oxygen Evolution, and Hydrogen Evolution. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (29) , 11658-11666. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b05006
Yu Yao, Reiko Izumi, Tetsuya Tsuda, Yoshifumi Oshima, Akihito Imanishi, Naoko Oda, Susumu Kuwabata. Platinum and PtNi Nanoparticle-Supported Multiwalled Carbon Nanotube Electrocatalysts Prepared by One-Pot Pyrolytic Synthesis with an Ionic Liquid. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2019, 2 (7) , 4865-4872. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b00561
Hao Chen, Rui Wang, Rong Huang, Changbao Zhao, Yangsheng Li, Zhongmiao Gong, Yunxi Yao, Yi Cui, Fan Yang, Xinhe Bao. Surface and Subsurface Structures of the Pt–Fe Surface Alloy on Pt(111). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (28) , 17225-17231. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b01626
Xin Jia, Wei An, Zeming Wang, Jingwen Zhou. Effect of Doped Metals on Hydrodeoxygenation of Phenol over Pt-Based Bimetallic Alloys: Caryl–OH Versus CaliphaticH–OH Bond Scission. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (27) , 16873-16882. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04457
Luan Nguyen, Franklin Feng Tao, Yu Tang, Jian Dou, Xiao-Jun Bao. Understanding Catalyst Surfaces during Catalysis through Near Ambient Pressure X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy. Chemical Reviews 2019, 119 (12) , 6822-6905. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00114
Anand Kumar. Current Trends in Cellulose Assisted Combustion Synthesis of Catalytically Active Nanoparticles. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2019, 58 (19) , 7681-7689. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01007
Jean-Gabriel Mattei, Panagiotis Grammatikopoulos, Junlei Zhao, Vidyadhar Singh, Jerome Vernieres, Stephan Steinhauer, Alexander Porkovich, Eric Danielson, Kai Nordlund, Flyura Djurabekova, Mukhles Sowwan. Gas-Phase Synthesis of Trimetallic Nanoparticles. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (6) , 2151-2163. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b00129
Xiaochen Shen, Sheng Dai, Shuyi Zhang, Zheng Lu, Changlin Zhang, George W. Graham, Yu Lei, Xiaoqing Pan, Zhenmeng Peng. Oxidation-Induced Atom Diffusion and Surface Restructuring in Faceted Ternary Pt–Cu–Ni Nanoparticles. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (5) , 1720-1728. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b05199
Concha Tojo, David Buceta, M. Arturo López-Quintela. Synthesis of Pt/M (M = Au, Rh) Nanoparticles in Microemulsions: Controlling the Metal Distribution in Pt/M Catalysts. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2019, 58 (7) , 2503-2513. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.8b03311
Xiaodan Li, Weiming Wan, Jingguang G. Chen, Tiefeng Wang. Selective Hydrogenation of Biomass-Derived 2(5H)-Furanone to γ-Butyrolactone over Ni-Based Bimetallic Catalysts. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2018, 6 (12) , 16039-16046. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b02212
Mingchuan Luo, Yingjun Sun, Yingnan Qin, Shulin Chen, Yingjie Li, Chunji Li, Yong Yang, Dong Wu, Nuoyan Xu, Yi Xing, Lei Wang, Peng Gao, Shaojun Guo. Surface and Near-Surface Engineering of PtCo Nanowires at Atomic Scale for Enhanced Electrochemical Sensing and Catalysis. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (19) , 6660-6667. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b01638
Shinya Furukawa, Yukihiko Matsunami, Ikutaro Hamada, Yasushi Hashimoto, Yasushi Sato, Takayuki Komatsu. Remarkable Enhancement in Hydrogenation Ability by Phosphidation of Ruthenium: Specific Surface Structure Having Unique Ru Ensembles. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (9) , 8177-8181. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02582
Taiyang Liu, Chaozhong Li, Qiang Yuan. Facile Synthesis of PtCu Alloy/Graphene Oxide Hybrids as Improved Electrocatalysts for Alkaline Fuel Cells. ACS Omega 2018, 3 (8) , 8724-8732. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.8b01347
Raana Kashfi-Sadabad, Sajad Yazdani, Tran Doan Huan, Zhao Cai, Michael Thompson Pettes. Role of Oxygen Vacancy Defects in the Electrocatalytic Activity of Substoichiometric Molybdenum Oxide. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (32) , 18212-18222. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b03536
Andrey V. Bukhtiyarov, Dudari B. Burueva, Igor P. Prosvirin, Alexander Yu. Klyushin, Maxim A. Panafidin, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Valerii I. Bukhtiyarov, Igor V. Koptyug. Bimetallic Pd–Au/Highly Oriented Pyrolytic Graphite Catalysts: from Composition to Pairwise Parahydrogen Addition Selectivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (32) , 18588-18595. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b06281
Yan Wang, Sihui Zhan, Song Di, Xu Zhao. Novel Flexible Self-Standing Pt/Al2O3 Nanofibrous Membranes: Synthesis and Multifunctionality for Environmental Remediation. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2018, 10 (31) , 26396-26404. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b07637
Fangyu Fu, Changlong Wang, Qi Wang, Angel M. Martinez-Villacorta, Ane Escobar, Hanbao Chong, Xin Wang, Sergio Moya, Lionel Salmon, Eric Fouquet, Jaime Ruiz, Didier Astruc. Highly Selective and Sharp Volcano-type Synergistic Ni2Pt@ZIF-8-Catalyzed Hydrogen Evolution from Ammonia Borane Hydrolysis. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (31) , 10034-10042. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b06511
Qiuyi Yuan, Yuki Wakisaka, Yohei Uemura, Takahiro Wada, Hiroko Ariga-Miwa, Satoru Takakusagi, Kiyotaka Asakura, Stanko R. Brankovic. Reaction Stoichiometry and Mechanism of Pt Deposition via Surface Limited Redox Replacement of Copper UPD Layer on Au(111). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (29) , 16664-16673. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b02218
Chenliang Ye, Zhenwei Wu, Wei Liu, Yang Ren, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Structure Determination of a Surface Tetragonal Pt1Sb1 Phase on Pt Nanoparticles. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (14) , 4503-4507. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b02071
Yecan Pi, Qi Shao, Xing Zhu, Xiaoqing Huang. Dynamic Structure Evolution of Composition Segregated Iridium-Nickel Rhombic Dodecahedra toward Efficient Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysis. ACS Nano 2018, 12 (7) , 7371-7379. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b04023
Load more citations
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of line-of-sight deposition of metal overlayer by physical vapor deposition with thermal filament.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Idealized bimetallic surface structures with one monolayer of 3d metals on a Pt(111) substrate.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematics of surface Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and subsurface Pt–Ni–Pt(111) structures derived from AES, low-energy ion scattering (LEIS), and scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). (28)
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic of the (100) and (111) regions of a supported bimetallic particle. (200)
Figure 5
Figure 5. Proposed structure of a supported Pt–Ni bimetallic particle derived from TEM, FTIR, and EXAFS characterization.
Figure 6
Figure 6. DFT calculations of thermodynamic stability of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces in vacuum and with 0.5 ML of atomic hydrogen and oxygen. Positive ΔEseg values indicate that the subsurface Pt–3d–Pt(111) structures are thermodynamically stable. (33, 200)
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Normalized Ni/Pt Auger ratio as a function of oxygen exposure at various temperatures and (b) Arrhenius analysis of the activation barrier from Pt–Ni–Pt(111) to Ni–Pt–Pt(111) in oxygen environment. (64)
Figure 8
Figure 8. Left axis shows the DFT-predicted potential energy difference for segregation of Pt–3d systems with 0.5 ML O, and the right axis shows activation barriers derived using a Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi relationship. (33)
Figure 9
Figure 9. (a) Dependence of the ratio of XPS Ni2p intensity to XPS Pt 4f intensity and (b) reversible change in surface structure of Pt–Ni transition metal nanoparticles with the oxidation and reduction cycles. (209) Reproduced with permission from ref 209. Copyright 2009 Elsevier.
Figure 10
Figure 10. DFT calculations of binding energies of hydrogen and cyclohexene on Pt–3d–Pt(111) and 3d–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
Figure 11
Figure 11. (a) TPD of hydrogenation of cyclohexene on Ni/Pt(111) monometallic and bimetallic surfaces; (b) volcano-type relationship between hydrogenation activity and surface d-band center value of 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. (27)
Figure 12
Figure 12. (a) Side view and top view of configurations of adsorbed acrolein through di-σ-C–C, di-σ-C–O, and η4(C,C,C,O) on the Pt–Ni–Pt(111) surface. (b) DFT calculations of acrolein and hydrogen binding energies versus the surface d-band center for H/Pt–Ni–Pt(111), H/Pt(111), and H/Ni–Pt–Pt(111) surfaces. (17)
Figure 13
Figure 13. Variation of amide conversion as a function of time for the hydrogenation of N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one at 120 °C, 20 bar H2, stirred at 1500 rpm in hexane using (■) 4 wt % Pt–4 wt % Re/TiO2, (●) 4 wt % Re–4 wt % Pt/TiO2, (▲) 4 wt % Pt/TiO2, and (⧫) 4 wt % Re/TiO2. (290) Reproduced with permission from ref 290. Copyright 2011 Elsevier.
Figure 14
Figure 14. Ammonia decomposition volcano curve. (14)
Figure 15
Figure 15. Selective dehydrogenation of cyclohexene on polycrystalline Pt–Au bimetallic surfaces. (254)
Figure 16
Figure 16. DFT results for binding energies of methanol, methoxy, ethanol, and ethoxy on Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
Figure 17
Figure 17. Reforming yields of ethanol, ethylene glycol, and glycerol versus the surface d-band center. (256) Reproduced with permission from ref 256. Copyright 2008 Springer.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Fixed-bed reactor results for APR of 10 wt % ethylene glycol solutions at 483 K and 25.4 bar over Pt–Ni bimetallic catalysts. (a) TOF–H2 (black) and alkane selectivity (gray); (b) specific H2 production rate (black) and irreversible CO chemisorption uptake (gray). (349) Reproduced with permission from ref 349. Copyright 2006 Springer.
Figure 19
Figure 19. Top and side views of adsorption geometry of glycolaldehyde on Ni–Pt–Pt(111) and the correlation between the surface d-band center and glycolaldehyde binding energy on different surfaces (23) (Pt, blue; Ni, gray; C, aqua; O, red; H, white).
Weiting Yu
Weiting Yu received her bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from Zhejiang University in 2008. She joined the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware the following fall and is currently in her fourth year. She is co-advised by Dr. Jingguang G. Chen and Dr. Mark A. Barteau. Her thesis is exploring catalytic conversion of biomass derivatives with topics of interest including catalysis, surface science, and renewable energy such as biomass.
Marc D. Porosoff
Marc Porosoff received his B.S. in 2009 and M.S. in 2010, both in Chemical Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University. He is currently working on his Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware. His research interests relate to alternative energy technologies through applications of supported bimetallic catalysts.
Jingguang G. Chen
Dr. Jingguang Chen is a professor of Chemical Engineering at Columbia University. He started his career at the Exxon Corporate Research Laboratories before joining the faculty at the University of Delaware. His current research activities include experimental and theoretical studies aimed at the utilization of carbide and bimetallic materials in catalysis and electrocatalysis.

</DOCUMENT>

Based on the details given in the supplied document above, first judge if the document is related to propane dehydrogenation. If the document is related to propane dehydrogenation, proceed to:

1. Enumerate all the catalysts mentioned within the document.
2. Classify each of these catalysts into their respective categories.
3. For each mentioned catalyst, discern the chemical symbol of the primary active site element, as well as the chemical symbol of the principal element dictating its activity in the context of propane dehydrogenation.
4. Identify which specific catalyst stands out as the pivotal scientific contribution within the manuscript.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelevant>
		<CatalystsList>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name>
				<Category>____</Category>
				<ActiveSiteElement>__(Chemical Symbol)___</ActiveSiteElement>
				<PrincipalElement>__(Chemical Symbol)___</PrincipalElement>
			</Catalyst>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name>
				<Category>____</Category>
				<ActiveSiteElement>__(Chemical Symbol)___</ActiveSiteElement>
				<PrincipalElement>__(Chemical Symbol)___</PrincipalElement>
			</Catalyst>
			<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
		</CatalystsList>
		<MainContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name>
				<Category>____</Category>
				<ActiveSiteElement>__(Chemical Symbol)___</ActiveSiteElement>
				<PrincipalElement>__(Chemical Symbol)___</PrincipalElement>
			</Catalyst>
		</MainContribution>
	</IfRelevant>
</output>
