<DOCUMENT>
Morphological investigations of nanostructured V2O5 over graphene used for the ODHP reaction: from synthesis to physiochemical evaluations
Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) in a fixed-bed reactor over synthesized vanadia nanocatalysts was investigated physicochemically. Several vanadium pentoxide (V2O5) nanostructures including rod-, belt-, tube-, needle- and flower-like forms were successfully synthesized via reflux and hydrothermal processes utilizing different templates such as monoamines, diamines, aromatic and alcoholic amines. The morphologies of the obtained products were found to be sensitive to the types of templates used. Nanorods obtained were 1.4 μm in length and about 97 nm in width while the VO2(B) nanotubes were of about 76 nm average diameter and up to 1.2 μm long. The diameters of the V2O5 nanotubes varied between 60 and 120 nm with lengths up to 5 μm. In this way, the as-synthesized vanadium nanostructures with amines doped on graphene with a 1 : 1 molar ratio of V : C were prepared both through reflux and hydrothermal methods. The surface morphologies were determined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The structure of the prepared samples was then characterized utilizing the XRD, BET/BJH, FTIR, UV-vis and TGA techniques. Amongst the materials investigated, the bulk catalyst of V2O5 prepared with dodecylamine and V2O5 synthesized by aniline on graphene was shown to be the most active catalyst for the ODHP reaction. The reactor test conditions of 450 °C, feed of C3H8/air molar ratio of 0.5 and total feed flow rate of 60 mL min−1 over vanadium on graphene resulted in 53.93% selectivity for propylene at 47.02% propane conversion after 6 h, at the end of the reaction. It was revealed that under these conditions the cracking of propane or propylene along with COx formation as a side reaction occurred. Moreover, the effects of different reaction temperatures as well as the propane-to-air ratio on propane conversion and product selectivities on the two optimized catalysts designated as V-DDA and V-A-G were investigated.
1. Introduction
Propylene is an important link between relatively cheap and abundant natural gas and many petrochemicals and intermediates such as propylene oxide, acrylonitrile and isopropyl alcohol. The conversion of light alkanes to their corresponding olefins was the subject of many investigations over the last two decades. This was due to a worldwide increase in demand for light olefins. Instead, propane catalytic dehydrogenation (i.e. the conventional method) was more selective than the established processes even though it suffered from thermodynamic limitations, high energy consumption, and pyrolysis side reactions as well as coke deposition in the system.1 On the other hand, the dehydrogenation of propane in the presence of oxygen presented a feasible alternative. However, industrialization of this process has not been completely realized due to the fact that the most appropriate catalytic system has not yet been determined.1,2
The first large-scale commercial plant for the STAR process® with oxidative dehydrogenation is yet to be realized for the Egyptian Propylene & Polypropylene Company (EPPC) at Port Said in Egypt. The Uhde company will build a turnkey plant producing 350 000 metric tons of propylene annually, with subsequent further processing into polypropylene including all associated off-site and utility sections.3 The acronym STAR stands for ‘STeam Active Reforming,’ through which the catalytic dehydrogenation process took place in the presence of steam. The catalyst was chosen to be a special platinum/tin complex fixed on a zinc aluminate support. Operation with steam reduced the partial pressure of the hydrocarbons and supposedly led to a higher propane equilibrium conversion rate. This meant that the reaction could take place at higher absolute pressures of near 6 bars reducing the investment costs and energy consumption due to planned raw gas compression.4 Moreover, the reduced carbon deposits on the catalyst led to a less frequent regeneration cycle as a result.3,4 The main reactions under the ODHP conditions were provided by the following:
C3H8 + 0.5O2 → C3H6 + H2O (1)
C3H8 + (2 + 1.5x)O2 → 3COx + 4H2O (2)
C3H6 + (1.5 + 1.5x)O2 → 3COx + 3H2O (3)
C3H8 + (1 + 0.5x)O2 → C2H4 + COx + 2H2O (4)
C3H6 + (0.5 + 0.5x)O2 → C2H4 + COx + H2O (5)
Most of the catalytic systems for the ODHP described in the open literature were based on transition metal oxides, with vanadia acting as such a species. For propane conversion to propylene via the ODHP process, supported vanadium oxide catalysts were reported as the most active and selective materials.2 This was due to vanadium's ability to provide lattice oxygen for hydrogen removal from alkanes. A previous study in the literature revealed that supported vanadium catalysts were more active in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactions with surface VOx coverage in the sub-monolayer region.2 A number of studies dealt with the effect of the support and preparation method for vanadia-supported materials.5,6 V2O5 supported on TiO2 was a well-established catalyst used in many industrial processes; however, it was demonstrated to be a promising catalyst for the ODHP process.7 In order to improve the catalytic behavior of the vanadia–titania system, various additives were examined and the most common ones determined to be oxides of potassium, phosphorus, tungsten and niobium.8 An important and promising area of research in metal-free catalysts was that of nanostructured carbons, and in particular carbon nanotubes (CNTs). Recent reports revealed an outstanding performance of nanoscale carbon materials in the ODH of hydrocarbons.9 Both the inferior selectivity and the yield of alkenes retarded the industrial application of ODH technology, despite the outstanding advantages of the oxidative pathway compared with non-oxidative processes for alkene production.10 CNTs were promising catalysts for the ODH of ethylbenzene at a lower temperature and without an excess supply of steam. Lately it was shown that CNTs with surface modification had a high potential for the activation of lower hydrocarbons.11 The applications of CNTs as catalysts attracted much interest in the catalysis community due to their unique porous microstructure and chemical properties. These materials exhibited excellent thermal conductivity, high surface area, and high thermal and chemical stabilities. Furthermore, carbon was also active and selective for catalytic oxidation reactions (e.g. ODH of ethylbenzene to styrene12) most of which were highly exothermic. The energy released to the catalyst surface caused the catalytic activity or selectivity to decline since the thermal conductivity of the active catalysts and/or the normally used supports was rather low. This problem was solved by employing supports possessing higher thermal conductivity such as CNTs, β-SiC, Si3N4, and BN13 conducting the heat from the catalyst surface to the reactor walls. In a different investigation, vanadium oxide–carbon nanotube composites were prepared by annealing a mixture of CNTs and V2O5 powder in air above the melting point of vanadium oxide. Such nanocomposites were synthesized by coating the surface of nitric acid-treated CNTs with vanadic acid. However, only a few works were reported on the use of CNTs or other carbonaceous materials to catalyze the ODH of light hydrocarbons.11,14 Liu et al.11 reported the application of CNTs as catalysts in the ODH of 1-butene to butadiene. The catalytic performance of the CNTs was remarkably high, stable, and superior to that of activated carbon and iron oxide. Characterizations of the CNTs before and after the reaction were made to test the hypothesis that the oxygen functional groups were the active sites for the ODH reaction. The vanadium oxide nanotubes (VOx-NTs) were especially interesting since vanadium oxides are widely applied in electrochemical devices as well as catalytic applications. The VOx-NTs were synthesized in a rheological phase reaction followed by a self-assembling process; nonetheless, it was found that there were residual organic templates left in the as-synthesized species, jeopardizing their desired properties.15
Vanadia-based catalysts showed high activity in various partial oxidation and oxidative dehydrogenation reactions of hydrocarbons. The higher reactivity of propylene in comparison to propane in oxidation reactions resulted in a fast consecutive propylene combustion limiting the product yield. A wider variety of catalysts and support materials was nevertheless investigated in the ODHP reaction.
In the case of ODH reactions, catalysts under development exhibited high yields of olefins at high selectivities. This proved to be a challenging task due to the tendency of both the alkanes and olefins to produce CO and CO2, depending on the nature of the catalyst.5,10,12,16 In the past decade V2O5 gels were extensively studied.17 More recently, a way to synthesize vanadium oxide nanotubes (VOx-NTs) by a sol–gel reaction of a vanadium alkoxide with a primary amine or diamine, followed by a hydrothermal treatment, was developed.18 Nanostructured transition metal oxides represented a unique class of materials because of their redox activity relating to interesting electrochemical and catalytic properties. Recent advances in sol–gel synthesis using organic molecules as structure-directing templates when combined with hydrothermal treatments provided appropriate methods for preparing mesostructured metal oxides. In particular, the application of such synthesis yielded vanadium oxides possessing a rather large variety of structures.19
In this paper, means to synthesize nanostructures from crystalline V2O5 and different amines as the reducing agent were reported. It was shown that the amines were reasonable candidates to control the texture and morphology of the prepared materials. Here, synthesis of vanadium nanostructures in the form of nanorod, -tube, -needle and -flower types, utilizing V2O5 as the source of the vanadium as well as propylamine, dodecylamine, aniline and diethanolamine as the reducing agents, was investigated. This approach constituted a different strategy for preparing nanostructures of inorganic solids. Moreover, the obtained vanadium nanomaterials hybridized with graphene to provide catalysts with high conversion and selectivity towards propylene production.
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalysts preparation
The graphene nanosheets were grown on copper foil by catalytic decomposition in a quartz tube furnace system employing the CVD method. Before they were loaded into the furnace, the copper foils were pretreated by a 25% acetic acid solution and mixed up using a magnetic stirrer for several hours. Then these foils were filtered from the acid solution and washed with deionized water until their pH reached neutrality (i.e. value of 7). Finally, the soaked copper foils were dried in a vacuum oven at 90 °C for 2 h. Then, the CVD method involving methane and hydrogen gases under vacuum conditions of 10 mTorr was utilized to grow graphene. The furnace was heated with a 3 mL min−1 flow of hydrogen at a temperature of 1050 °C. After 40 min heating, the copper foils annealed under a flow of 35 mL min−1 methane were introduced for a graphene growth time of 15 min. A quick quenching after growth was applied while the methane and hydrogen gas flow continued throughout. Afterwards, copper particles were removed by a purification treatment. Such purification included the process of using 50% HCl at 40 °C with a magnetic stirrer for 16 h. Then the content of the flask was filtered under vacuum and washed out by distilled water reaching a pH of 7. Next, the filter cake was dried in a vacuum oven at 40 °C for 8 h. The details of the aforementioned experimental procedure and the in-house production by this research team were presented in the open literature.20,21 To eliminate the amorphous carbon, graphene samples were calcined under an air atmosphere at 400 °C for 2 h.
Vanadium pentoxide (V2O5) (supplied by the Aldrich Chemicals Co.) was used as a vanadium source. Moreover, the organic reagents propylamine, dodecylamine, benzylamine, aniline and diethanolamine were utilized as templates. Bulk vanadium nanostructures were synthesized with two consecutive steps of the reflux and hydrothermal methods. A mixture of V2O5 and different amines in the molar ratio of V/amine = 1 : 1 including propylamine (CH3–(CH2)2–NH2), dodecylamine (CH3–(CH2)11–NH2), aniline (C6H5–NH2) and diethanolamine ((CH2CH2OH)–NH–(OHCH2CH2)) were dissolved in 200 mL ethanol at 90 °C under vigorous stirring for 120 min. This solution and 100 mL distilled water were transferred into a round-bottom flask in the reflux setup. The resulting suspension was introduced into a Teflon-lined steel autoclave while the temperature was set at 180 °C for 48 h. The resulting precipitate was filtered and washed to be neutralized. This precipitate was then washed with a solution of ethanol and n-hexane to remove organic residues and then dried at 100 °C for 24 h to produce different vanadium oxide nanostructures. The black color of the powder suggested that some V5+ was reduced to V4+ by decomposition of the organic compound.22 The samples were subsequently calcined at 500 °C for 2 h under nitrogen and then air atmospheres, respectively. The resulting catalysts prepared by the reflux and then hydrothermal methods were designated as V-PA, V-DDA, V-A and V-DEA utilizing propylamine, dodecylamine, aniline and diethanolamine as the reducing agents, respectively.
The hybrid catalysts prepared by the reflux and hydrothermal methods consisted of V2O5, the abovementioned different amines and graphene, in a carbon to vanadium to amine (C : V : amine) molar ratio of 1 : 1 : 1. These were dissolved in 200 mL ethanol at 90 °C under vigorous stirring for 120 min. Other unit operations including reflux, hydrothermal, washing, drying and calcination were all the same as those employed for preparation of the different bulk vanadium nanostructure materials. The resulting prepared hybrid catalysts were designated as V-PA-G, V-DDA-G, V-A-G and V-DEA-G indicating the prepared composites of vanadium and graphene with propylamine, dodecylamine, aniline and diethanolamine, respectively.
2.2. Catalyst characterization techniques
The catalysts were characterized by FESEM, XRD, TGA/DTA, FTIR, ASAP and nitrogen porosimetry as well as UV-vis diffuse reflectance spectroscopy. Field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM) images were obtained with a Hitachi S-4160 device. Gold was used as a conductive material for sample coating. Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements were conducted using standard powder diffraction procedure carried out with a STOE analytical X-ray diffractometer (Cu Kα radiation, λ = 1.5406 Å). Data were collected for 2θ between 3 and 120° with a step size of 0.08°. The thermal analysis including thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was performed under an air atmosphere with a heating rate of 5 °C min−1 using a thermal analyzer TGA/DSC (Mettler, Japan) from room temperature up to 600 °C. Subsequently, the FTIR analyses were performed and recorded on an ABB Bomem MB-100 spectrophotometer. FTIR spectra were obtained from KBr pellets taken from 4000 to 400 cm−1 with a resolution of 4 cm−1. The pore size, textural properties and specific surface area of the catalysts were measured by nitrogen adsorption–desorption at −196 °C using the ASAP model 2010 apparatus (Belsorp mini II, manufactured by BEL, Japan). The samples were initially degassed under vacuum at 200 °C for 12 h. The BET/BJH methods were utilized for measuring the specific surface area, total pore volume, and average pore diameter. The UV-visible spectroscopy was performed by the AvaSpec-2048Tec (for DRS and PL spectrum) with a light source of AvaLight-DH-S (providing the DRS spectrum) equipped with a diffuse reflectance accessory. UV-vis spectra were measured in the range 200–1100 nm. In addition, 20–30 mg of the powdered material was necessary to fill up the sample cup.
2.3. Experimental rig
Catalyst performance tests were carried out in a conventional tubular fixed-bed quartz reactor. A schematic of the utilized experimental setup is displayed in Fig. 1. The reactor was 14 mm in diameter and 70 cm long. It was placed in an electrical furnace equipped with a temperature controller to maintain the reactor temperature at within ±1 °C of the desired set point using thermocouples placed both on the internal as well as the external surface of the reactor. The catalyst loading was 0.5 g mixed with 0.5 g quartz beads for all ODHP experiments. Nitrogen, air and propane were all more than 99.9% in purity. The reactor was purged at room temperature with nitrogen for 2 h. The reactor temperature was then increased to the desired value with a temperature ramp of 5 °C min−1. The reaction was performed at 450 °C. Air and propane gas flow rates were controlled by Brooks mass flow controllers. The exit gases were analyzed for the light hydrocarbons. The amounts of CO and CO2 were determined through an online (Agilent model) gas chromatograph equipped with both TCD and FID detectors. In a typical experiment, product samples were analyzed after the start of the run when stable conditions were achieved.
Fig. 1 Schematic of the experimental apparatus utilized in the current research.
Propane conversion, product selectivities and propylene yield were defined as follows:
(6)
(7)
(8)
where i included all the components containing carbon atoms in the exit gas stream, ni was the number of carbon atoms of component i and Fi was the corresponding molar flow rate.
3. Catalysts characterization results
3.1. FESEM micrographs
The FESEM micrographs of mixtures of the V2O5 treated with propylamine (V-PA) displayed in Fig. 2a showed that the synthesized material was made of a homogeneous phase with particles uniformly sized. Moreover, it was observed that these particles possessed a nanorod morphology with a length of 1.4 μm and an average width of about 97 nm. The FESEM micrograph (Fig. 2b) of the sample obtained after hydrothermal treatment of the mixture of V2O5 and dodecylamine (V-DDA) showed that the synthesized material was made of a homogeneous phase with uniform particles demonstrating nanotube morphology with a size about 76 nm and 1.2 μm in diameter and length, respectively. The morphology of the V2O5 nanoneedles (V-A) was revealed in the FESEM image of Fig. 2c. The as-prepared products were composed of large quantities of one-dimensional V2O5 nanoneedles with typical length of up to 3 μm and the diameter of them varied in the range 80–115 nm. It was concluded from this figure that the type of amine played an important role in controlling the morphologies of the V2O5 nanostructures. When the diethanolamine was introduced, large amounts of flower-like V2O5 nanostructures (V-DEA) were obtained, as shown in Fig. 2d. Moreover, the detailed morphology of these V2O5 nanoflowers revealed that they possessed smooth surfaces.
Fig. 2 FESEM micrographs of: a) V-PA, b) V-DDA, c) V-A and d) V-DEA for differently prepared catalysts in this research.
Huang et al. also pointed out that organic molecules such as surfactants had the ability to control the shape and size of the particles.23 The dodecylamine played a critical role in such systems due to the fact that the tube-like morphologies might not have been obtained under the reflux and hydrothermal conditions in the presence of other organic molecules like aniline or diethanolamine.
The morphology of the V2O5–graphene composite catalysts is demonstrated in Fig. 3. The composite texture had an overall structure such that the graphene sheets were stacked uniformly with V2O5 nanomaterial (designated as the V-PA-G) dispersed between them (Fig. 3(a)). Noticeably, the resulting homogeneously entangled nature of these two components was the most critical feature, substantially improving the performance of the composite catalysts. The FESEM images of various vanadium structures presented in Fig. 3b to d also supported the uniform dispersion of V2O5 nanostructures within the graphene sheets leading to this homogeneous structure.
Fig. 3 FESEM images of: a) V-PA-G, b) V-DDA-G, c) V-A-G and d) V-DEA-G for differently prepared catalysts in this study.
It was important to note that the homogeneous mixing of components was previously ascribed to the graphene's acting as a surfactant.24,25 This factor enhanced its ability to assist the dispersion of vanadium components in the solution as well as in a medium for vanadium growth. Moreover, in the case of the pristine V2O5 nanostructures, they were vulnerable to agglomeration into clusters for sizes up to hundreds of nanometers due to the Ostwald ripening phenomenon during the calcination step. This emphasized the crucial role of the graphene sheets for good dispersion of the vanadium nanostructure.
3.2. XRD patterns
The crystallinity of the synthesized samples was examined by the XRD method. The obtained patterns of the VOx nanostructures from reflux and hydrothermal treatments of V2O5 and propylamine, dodecylamine and aniline (Fig. 4a) showed low-angle reflection peaks characteristic of a well-ordered layered structure. This behavior might also have been due to the remaining organic templates in the system. This issue was further supported through other characterization techniques including FTIR and UV-vis spectroscopy to be discussed shortly. Peaks with highest intensity at low diffraction angles reflected the distance between the vanadium oxide layers. This indicated that the propylamine, dodecylamine and aniline molecules were indeed inserted between the vanadium oxide layers. The average distance between the parallel VOx layers in the rod, tube and needle walls gave rise to certain reflections in reciprocal space. As a result, strong reflections at a low diffraction angle appeared in the XRD pattern (Fig. 4a). The organic template was incorporated between these VOx layers. The XRD pattern of the VOx-NTs displayed two series of reflections: a 00l set with high intensity corresponding to the stacking of the layers along a direction perpendicular to the substrate and a hk0 set of reflections with lower intensity corresponding to the two-dimensional structure of the layers. The 00l series provided the distance between the vanadium oxide layers. However, the synthesized VOx nanorod, -tube and -needle types apparently possessed considerable stability compared to that of the aliphatic VOx nanotubes. Moreover, it was previously demonstrated that intercalated long-chain alkylamines lay perpendicular to the oxide planes and the basal distance was close to the length of the amine.26
Fig. 4 XRD patterns of a) different vanadium nanostructures and b) vanadium on graphene template for differently prepared catalysts.
The XRD patterns in Fig. 4(a) showed the powder diffraction patterns of the samples obtained after hydrothermal treatment of V2O5 and diethanolamine, respectively. These patterns indicated that all obtained diffraction peaks were identical to those of the VO2(B) (according to the JCPDS card #81-2392). No peaks of any other phases or impurities were detected due to these patterns. This further indicated that a VO2(B) phase with high purity might be obtained via hydrothermal treatment at 180 °C using crystalline V2O5 and diethanolamine as the source of vanadium and reducing agent, respectively. The XRD pattern of the product was typical of a layered compound. It displayed two series of reflections including the; 001 and hk0 sets as discussed above.
Fig. 4(b) showed the XRD patterns of vanadium oxide and amines hybridized with graphene. As demonstrated, all peaks were identified as V8C7 (PDF card no. JCPDS #19-1394). This suggested that, at a given hydrothermal condition of high pressure and temperature, different amines, V2O5 and graphene might have gone through some reactions. In other words, carbon was obtained by the decomposition reaction of amines and then reacted with V2O5. During the reduction reaction of carbon, the vanadium oxide was transformed into vanadium carbide.27
3.3. Thermal analysis
Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and its differentiating curves for V-PA and V-DDA are shown in Fig. 5. In parts (a) and (c) of this figure, related to the V-PA species, a broad peak in the temperature range 50–100 °C associated with a decrease in weight of about 2.64% (TGA) occurred. This was assigned to desorption of water molecules. A weight loss of ~14.16% occurred between 150 and 400 °C. This was associated with an exothermic peak corresponding to the decomposition of residual organic molecules. Yet another exothermic process with a weight increase of ~3.44% was observed at 460 °C. It corresponded to the oxidation of V4+ leading to the formation of the yellow V2O5 species according to the following reaction:
2VO2 + 0.5O2 → V2O5 (9)
Fig. 5 Thermal analysis including TGA for: a) V-PA and b) V-DDA as well as DTGA for: c) V-PA and d) V-DDA materials.
Fig. 5b and d showed the TGA-DTGA curves of the V-DDA catalyst. The DTGA curve exhibited a broad endothermic peak between room temperature and up to 100 °C attributed to the adsorption of water molecules. A slight weight loss occurred between 150 and 400 °C. It corresponded to the decomposition of residual organic molecules. Another endothermic process with a weight loss of 17.44% was observed around 410 to 520 °C, ascribed to the oxidation of V4+ leading to the formation of the yellow V2O5. TGA-DTGA curves of the synthesized vanadium oxide nanostructures on graphene are presented in Fig. 6. The TGA curve for V-DDA-G exhibited an exothermic peak around 100 °C associated with a decrease in weight of 1.74% (TGA). The DTGA peak around 200 °C corresponding to its TGA curves displayed a decrease of about 4.72%. This phenomenon was attributed to the combustion of organic molecules adsorbed at the surface. A weight loss of ~9.53% occurred between 300 and 400 °C. It was associated with a sharp exothermic peak corresponding to the decomposition of organic molecules. Furthermore, there was an exothermic peak between 400 and 570 °C with a weight decrease of 23.41% assigned to the crystallization of the yellow V2O5 species. The TGA curve for V-A-G exhibited an exothermic peak around 530 °C corresponding to the crystallization of the V2O5. A weight loss of about 14.80% for this material was also observed.
Fig. 6 Thermal analysis including TGA for: a) V-DDA-G and b) V-A-G as well as DTGA for: c) V-DDA-G and d) V-A-G materials.
3.4. BET surface area
The specific surface area (SBET), pore volume (Vpore) and average pore size (dpore) of V2O5 nanostructures were measured by physisorption of nitrogen according to the BET method. The obtained results for different catalysts are presented in Table 1. Analysis of the experimental findings provided important values of the specific surface area, pore volume and average pore size of the considered materials. On the other hand, Fig. 7 showed type IV N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms being characteristic of mesoporous materials with a high energy of adsorption and the BJH pore size distribution for the V-A catalyst. The H3-type hysteresis loops were usually observed with rigid bulk particles having uniform sizes.28 This result was confirmed by the specific surface area and the average pore size values for the aforementioned catalyst. The BJH part of Fig. 7 suggested that the catalyst was hierarchically porous. Such a hierarchical structure was essential to ensure a good catalytic performance, since the large pore channels allowed rapid mass transport of reactants and products while the small ones in combination with higher surface areas provided more surface active sites. It is noteworthy to mention that Fig. 7 was typical of the results for the prepared nanocatalysts provided in Table 1.
Table 1 Results of SBET, Vpore and dpore for different catalysts in this research
Catalysts SBET (m2 g−1) Vpore (cm3 g−1) dpore (Å)
V-DDA 45.7 194.4 × 10−3 190.29
V-DDA-G 78.2 209.1 × 10−3 198.56
V-A 39.9 188.5 × 10−3 189.15
V-A-G 84.6 218.2 × 10−3 197.24
Fig. 7 (a) N2 adsorption/desorption isotherm and (b) BJH pore size distribution for the V-A nanocatalyst (red empty and filled circles showed adsorption and desorption; respectively).
3.5. FTIR analysis
Fig. 8 displayed the FTIR spectra for the synthesized nanocatalysts. The band around 1000 cm−1 observed for the vanadium nanostructures was present in many vanadium oxide compounds with intermediate oxidation states between V5+ and V4+ (Fig. 8a). This was attributed to the stretching of short VO bonds also present in the VO2(B) species,29 while the band at 940 cm−1 was attributed to the coupled vibration between VO and V–O–V for all vanadium nanostructures except the V-A catalyst. The vibrational band around 520–600 cm−1 was attributed to the V–O–V octahedral bending modes. These characterizations suggested a model for the formation of nanorods or nanotubes. To the best of these authors' knowledge and experience, the whole formation process of the VO2(B) nanorods under reflux followed by hydrothermal conditions might have been expressed through Fig. 8(a). To explain the mechanism controlling the morphology of the product after the hydrothermal treatment, a possible intermediate process was suggested on the basis of the lamellar structure of the precursors.30 Since this structure was stabilized by the dodecylamine molecules, it was reasonable that the lamellar structure would break down after displacement of the amine compounds. During the hydrothermal treatment, it was probable that the lamellar precursors would split into nanotubes, and the products obtained showed striated morphologies. However, in the hydrothermal synthesis, the lamellar intermediate product would split later into small stems because of the loss of dodecylamine molecules. The hydrophobic character of diethanolamine molecules made the immobilization of this lamellar structure difficult, resulting in the collapse of the final lamellar precursor. This supported the exfoliation of the precursor and the formation of vanadium oxide nanoflowers. The benzylamine played a dual role as a reducing and structuring agent in the formation of nanotube materials. The FTIR spectrum of VOx nanotubes and nanorods (Fig. 8a) revealed absorptions at around 2900, 2850 and 1500 cm−1 assigned to the stretching and bending modes of the different C–H vibrations in the propylamine and dodecylamine templates, respectively. In the vanadium and diethanolamine template sample the very likely absorption band around 3500 cm−1 belonged to the O–H vibrations expected to spread somehow around 3600 cm−1 (ref. 28) depending on the strength of the hydrogen bonds. The signals between 500 and 1000 cm−1 in VOx nanorods, -tubes and -needles were attributed to various (group) vibrations of the V–O type.31 The possible mechanism of nanotube formation was already presented in the open literature.26 Moreover, in the course of the hydrothermal treatment, the lamellar structure intercalated with amines through which the vanadium oxide sheets might start to bend at both ends of the layers at the same time. The bending sheets have the potential to close perfectly leading to concentric cylinders. Fig. 8(b) showed the FTIR spectra of vanadium oxide on graphene with amines as the templates. The broad band at around 530 cm−1 for the V-DDA-G and V-DEA-G was assigned to the V–O–V octahedral bending modes. The band at 950 cm−1 was associated with the stretching of short VO bonds. The band appearing at 1050 cm−1 was due to initial disorder from the VO2(B) octahedral arrangement. The absorption band at 3400 cm−1 was due to the O–H functional group in the structure.32 In the V-A-G spectra, the band in the vicinity of 500 cm−1 attributed to the V–O–V octahedral bending mode was ascribed to the vanadium in the structure. The somewhat plateau-like feature observed in the V-A-G sample was assigned to carbon due to the graphene in the structure of the catalyst.
Fig. 8 FTIR spectra of vanadium nanostructures (a) and vanadium on graphene (b) prepared through various amine nanocatalysts.
3.6. UV-vis diffuse reflectance
UV-vis spectra provided useful information about the structure and characteristics of the vanadium species investigated. The diffuse spectra for vanadium oxide nanostructures and those on graphene were presented in Fig. 9. These spectra of the materials suggested that the more ordered structures of vanadium as well as those on graphene were due to greater retention of carbon rings in the basal planes. For all materials, a similar shoulder around 300 nm was observed and attributed to n → π* transitions of the carbonyl groups. All of these materials demonstrated a very similar behavior in terms of absorption wavelengths being located in the vicinity of 225 nm as previously reported for graphene oxide.33
Fig. 9 UV-vis spectra of (a) vanadium nanostructures and (b) vanadium on graphene prepared through various amines.
On the other hand, the vanadium nanocatalysts had the absorption band in the visible region of the spectra. In the UV region a strong ligand-to-metal charge transfer (LMCT) band due to the O → V5+ transition was observed around 290 nm. The absence of absorption bands around 600–800 nm indicated the absence of d–d transitions due to VO2+ species. The UV spectra for graphene-containing samples showed peaks at around 300 nm corresponding to the excitation of the π-plasmon of the graphitic structure.
4. Reactor performance evaluations
All physiochemical characterizations performed up to this point were directed toward the fact that the pristine vanadium nanostructures prepared via different amines (as the templates) resulted in different morphologies. Moreover, various bulk vanadium nanomaterials exemplified by V-PA and V-DDA revealed superior morphologies due to layered structures as well as no sign of any impurities detected in them. These made them the best candidates for the ODHP reaction. Besides, several vanadium nanostructures prepared on graphene (via the amines) resulted in uniform morphologies, amongst which vanadium on graphene with dodecylamine and aniline (i.e. V-DDA-G and V-A-G) seemed to possess greater potential for propylene production. Therefore, reactor tests were needed to further determine which one of these so-called better materials might be more desirable for catalyzing the reaction at hand.
GC analysis revealed that the product mixture comprised propylene, ethylene, CO, CO2 and residual reactants resulting in a carbon balance of almost 100%. It is noteworthy that the carbon balances for all catalytic tests were determined and found to be within ±0.5% accuracy. No organic oxygenate was detected by GC meaning that more than 99.5% selectivity toward the aforementioned products was obtained. It is noted that at the investigated temperature in this research a minute amount of methane might have been formed. This rationalized the exclusion of such species regarding the carbon balance determinations. It was also shown through the open literature that, for the propane dehydrogenation,7 the selectivity towards methane was below 0.3%, emphasizing the rationale of this discussion. It is worth mentioning that the vanadium oxide catalysts have resulted in the best yields of propylene via the ODHP reaction, although they use an appropriate amount of propylene.34 In this manner, investigations of the VOx phase as well as the support materials leading to the reaction while obtaining attractive propylene productivities were the main goals of the present research. Currently, the target in the light alkanes ODH field is to develop synthesis methods allowing dispersion of V2O5 as 2D oligomeric VOx species rather than V2O5 nanoparticles. This was reconfirmed though other studies in the open literatures.34,35 In other words, sub-monolayer catalysis is indeed the approach to be followed for the light alkanes ODH process.
For the comparative study of catalytic performance, the eight nanocatalysts including different vanadium nanostructures prepared via the reflux and hydrothermal methods, as well as the vanadium nanostructures on graphene synthesized via the amines, were evaluated at 450 °C under a C3H8/air molar ratio of 0.5 and a total feed flow rate of 60 mL min−1. Propane conversion, propylene, ethylene and COx selectivities and yields of propylene for the vanadium oxide nanostructures on graphene at the end of the run (i.e. after 6 h from propane injection) were presented in Fig. 10. These were for the catalytic ODHP reaction under the aforementioned operating conditions.
Fig. 10 Propane conversion, product selectivities and yield of propylene over different a) vanadium oxide nanocatalysts, and b) vanadium oxide on graphene (under reaction conditions of T = 450 °C, C3H8/air = 0.5 and FT = 60 mL min−1).
The stability of the current catalysts in the present research for a duration of 6 h (i.e. for one complete cycle) after the propane injection was monitored. It followed a stable trend. Moreover, through the previous work of these authors14 on carbon-based catalysts, trajectories checking stability trends were determined for propane conversion, propylene, ethylene and COx selectivities as well as propylene yield with time on-stream. Because of the total consumption of oxygen, it was concluded that the CO2 formation during the ODHP reaction mainly originated from oxidation of the hydrocarbon feedstock and not from burning of the carbon catalysts indicating the occurrence of consecutive reactions.
It was revealed that V-A-G was an effective catalyst for the ODHP reaction since 53.93% propylene selectivity at 47.02% propane conversion was reached at 450 °C. The propylene selectivity and propane conversion followed consistent trends emphasizing that consecutive propylene degradation reactions took place. It was worthy of mention that catalysts without calcination in air had a very low catalytic activity. This pointed towards the issue that the active sites for the ODHP (i.e. carbonyl-like groups) were introduced on the carbon nanostructures through air oxidation. Moreover, since both propane conversion and propylene selectivity were sensitive to the support structure compared with the dehydrogenation process, any impurities or inactive species on the support surface might have acted as a site diluent enhancing the selectivity towards dehydrogenation. This conclusion was also supported by Sui et al.10 A carbon support thus acted as an inactive species and thereby improved propylene selectivity. The vanadium nanocatalysts prepared by reflux and hydrothermal methods incorporating different amines displayed yields of 19.14% with propane conversion and propylene selectivity of 43.32% and 44.18%, respectively, for the V-DDA material. One ought to be careful that when propane undergoes oxidative dehydrogenation to form propylene and combustion of propane and propylene, the COx species formed should be accounted for. Carbon oxides might form both through an oxidative reaction and steam reforming of hydrocarbon feed and products. The selectivity toward COx decreased on the catalysts containing graphene. Fig. 10 indicated that the vanadium with aniline based on graphene prepared by the reflux and hydrothermal methods resulted in a lower COx formation compared with other catalysts. Evaluations revealed that vanadium on graphene materials prepared by the hydrothermal method had a greater propylene yield and selectivity rendering those better choices as optimum catalysts for the ODHP reaction.
Dissociative conversion of propane into propylene was observed under the abovementioned conditions. Considering the high stability of vanadium on graphene in air, it was a foregone conclusion that the COx originated during the reaction mainly from oxidation of the hydrocarbon feedstock rather than from burning of the carbon catalysts. In order to investigate the effects of the operating conditions on propylene formation, the temperature and feed molar ratio were selected as the most important choice of variables, to be rationalized shortly. The range for operating variables investigated in the present research was based on the values available in the open literature. The temperature range was chosen between 400 and 500 °C. The rationale for this choice was as follows. It was expected that gasification of the CNTs and graphene might have become significant at temperatures above 530 °C while the catalysts were inactive below 300 °C.10 The common range of the molar feed ratio was between 0.3 and 0.8 while the feed flow rate, due to the fine structure of the catalysts, was chosen at a common value of 60 mL min−1. Furthermore, complete systematic optimization regarding the effect of operating parameters including the temperature and propane-to-air molar ratio as well as total feed flow rate upon the propane conversion and propylene, ethylene, and COx selectivities was performed through the experimental design approach in a previous publication of these authors.14 In that study, results of the experimental design for catalyst evaluations indicated that the propane conversions and product selectivities were more influenced by the temperature and propane-to-air ratio than the feed flow rate. Moreover, optimum conditions for maximizing propane conversion and propylene selectivity as well as minimizing the COx selectivity were determined at a temperature of 500 °C, propane-to-air molar ratio of 0.28 and total flow rate of 60 mL min−1.14 In the present research, however, the total feed flow rate was kept constant at the optimized 60 mL min−1 while the effects of the other operating parameters were investigated. In addition, to differentiate thermal dehydrogenation (i.e. cracking) from the catalytic route for the ODHP reaction, reactor tests were performed on the propane feed without oxygen and in the absence of catalyst, under which a maximum propane conversion of 5% at 500 °C was obtained. As such, it was safely concluded that the contributions of the thermal cracking and the catalytic ODHP reactions were distinguished from one another.
Fig. 11 and 12 demonstrated the ODHP activity of V-DDA and V-A-G catalysts as a function of reaction temperature and propane-to-air ratio. It was revealed that conversion was enhanced as the reaction temperature increased while the selectivity for total olefins was increased as well. Conversion values decreased upon increasing the propane-to-air ratio from 0.3 to 0.8 at the same reaction temperature. All the catalysts had almost the same selectivity for alkenes as the concentration of air was doubled. As shown in Fig. 12, the amounts of the olefins obtained on the graphene-based catalyst were higher than those on the V-DDA material.
Fig. 11 Effects of: a) reaction temperature at C3H8/air molar ratio of 0.5 and b) C3H8/air molar ratio at T = 450 °C on olefin selectivities and propane conversion over the V-DDA catalyst.
Fig. 12 Effects of: a) reaction temperature at C3H8/air molar ratio of 0.5 and b) C3H8/air molar ratio at T = 450 °C on olefin selectivities and propane conversion over the V-A-G material.
The interaction of propane with oxygen-treated surfaces of the carbon catalysts was important to the yield of alkenes such as ethylene and propylene. Propane molecules were activated by the surface oxygen groups to yield alkenes with remarkable selectivity. The surface of carbon materials was capped by a variety of functionalized oxygen groups.10,36 In these surface species, ketonic groups had great potential to coordinate a redox process due to being rich in electrons. On the other hand, production of the corresponding alkenes was attributed to the Lewis basic sites known to abstract hydrogen atoms from the C–H bonds of alkanes. The reaction between the gas phase oxygen and the abstracted hydrogen thus regenerated the active sites accompanied by the formation of water.36,37 This active site regeneration also enhanced the catalytic stability of such materials.
Non-zero selectivity toward the COx species (both CO and CO2) at close-to-zero values of not only conversion of propane but also selectivity to propylene revealed that direct total oxidation of propane to carbon oxides took place over the catalysts investigated. This was further confirmed by the observation that the propylene selectivity decreased with increasing propane conversion while the selectivity towards ethylene increased (i.e.Fig. 11a and 12a). This observation indicated that both CO and CO2 formed also via consecutive oxidation of propane and propylene as primary species. Selectivity toward the COx materials was more pronouncedly influenced by the degree of propane conversion upon changing the propane-to-air ratio (see Fig. 11b and 12b). Thus, it was concluded that propylene rather than propane was preferentially oxidized towards formation of the COx species.
In addition, it seemed that a high reaction temperature and low C3H8/air molar ratio favored higher propylene yields. Moreover, both such variables were beneficial for carbon-based structure gasification of the V-A-G catalyst at temperatures beyond 530 °C. Nonetheless, limitations on such parameters prevented achieving a higher propylene yield. Furthermore, the production of the COx led to lowering of the product selectivities, indicating that the reflux followed by the hydrothermal method increased the extent of the synthesized catalytic active sites.
Finally, the comparative reactor performance results of the best obtained catalysts for the ODHP reaction through this work with those of different materials available in the open literature were presented in Table 2. These results emphasized that the synthesized catalysts in this research proved to be superior. It is clearly revealed through this table that the catalysts utilized in the current study converted 50% of propane. On the other hand, to prove the stability and suitability of the graphene support for this purpose, a previous study performed the reactor experiments for different residence times under different conditions (i.e., below 10% propane conversion). The results emphasized that graphene was indeed a very suitable support material for the propane ODH carried out on supported V2O5 catalysts.38 Moreover, in a previous publication of these researchers38 the application of design of experiment (DOE) coupled with artificial neural networks (ANN) led to a kinetic study of the ODHP over a vanadium–graphene catalyst at 400–500 °C. The proposed reaction network comprised consecutive and simultaneous reactions expressing the kinetics through simple power law equations involving a total of 20 unknown parameters determined through non-linear regression analysis. Due to the actual complex nature of the system from the main and side reactions point of view, such a power law model was chosen instead of a more complicated mechanistic model to realize the chemical kinetics behavior of the system. Nonetheless, the results of such kinetic modeling satisfactorily fit the experimental data. Moreover, the as-prepared catalysts38 were extremely fine particles, so that intra-particle diffusion was neglected. Besides, under different feed flow rates of identical compositions the external mass transfer resistance was also negligible. The absence of temperature and concentration gradients both outside and inside the catalyst particle, as well as a series of classical empirical correlations, was employed to evaluate and emphasize the negligibility of the limiting conditions. These criteria guaranteed a well-established kinetic control regime of the operation in that investigation.38 With this background, these authors synthesized the new materials in the current paper as well as investigating them from process, performance and application points of view. In other words, no rate and kinetic modeling was undertaken in the current research. On the other hand, kinetic investigations of vanadium on different supports were thoroughly investigated by Carrero et al.34,35
Table 2 The comparative results of vanadium catalysts for the ODHP reaction
Catalyst/oxidizing agent T (°C) Propane conversion (%) Selectivity (%) C3H6 yield (%) Ref.
C2H4 C3H6 COx
6%V/6%Ti/SBA-15 500 1.1 — 88 — 0.97 35
4%V/13%Ti/SBA-15 500 1.8 — 81 — 1.46 35
V2O5/O2 500 6.73 — 25.26 73.70 1.69 39
V2O5/N2O 500 4.30 — 72.25 27.21 3.11 39
V2O5/Air 460 3.5 — 15.3 84.7 0.54 40
Al2O3/O2 and H2S 700 24.2 13.9 71.3 5.7 17.2 41
Al2O3/O2 700 26.8 34.8 44.5 3.1 11.9 41
V-Al2O3/O2 and H2S 700 53.7 25.1 56.5 1.0 30.4 41
V-Al2O3/O2 700 22.8 29.9 25.0 22.3 5.70 41
CeO2 450 7.25 0.0 18.14 81.86 1.32 42
3.6V-SBA-15/O2 540 13 — 60 37 7.80 43
3.6V-SBA-16/O2 540 13 — 57 41 7.41 43
3.6V-MCM-48/O2 540 13 — 56 42 7.28 43
V-DDA 500 50.44 17.44 41.03 41.28 20.69 Present work
V-A-G 500 50.65 21.49 51.86 25.75 26.27 Present work
It is noteworthy that catalytic deactivation tests were not performed for the prepared catalysts as described earlier in the experimental section of this paper. Besides, the determined carbon balance revealed no considerable alteration (before and after the reactor tests) occurred, emphasizing rather stable trends in the catalysts' performance. Moreover, the goal of the present research was to investigate the feasibility of the newly synthesized catalysts from a performance point of view. Nonetheless, in order to study the deactivation or structure of the synthesized catalyst, special characterizations such as determination of the crystallite size of the corresponding materials (before and after the reactor tests) ought to be performed. Such issues indeed need to be addressed in order to further develop these catalysts.
5. Conclusions
In this research, several vanadium oxide nanostructures were prepared from a vanadium precursor and different amines. This was done through a reflux method followed by a hydrothermal treatment. Nanorods, -tubes, -needles and -flowers of vanadium oxides were successfully synthesized through the simple yet elegant hydrothermal process. This was performed utilizing a mixture of crystalline V2O5 as the vanadium source and various amines including propylamine, dodecylamine, aniline and diethanolamine as the reducing agents along with structure-directing templates under mild operating conditions. It was shown that the organic components played an important role in the texture and morphology of the final products. In fact, the bulk nanostructures in this study displayed high crystallinity, enhancing the ODHP reaction. The prepared catalyst named V-DDA displayed the best activity and yield from conversion and selectivity viewpoints. Moreover, hybrid catalysts from vanadium oxide along with the aforementioned amines and graphene as the template were synthesized via reflux followed by the hydrothermal process. The synthesized hybrid catalysts evaluated in the ODHP process utilizing the V-A-G catalysts displayed higher conversions and selectivities. All synthesized catalysts (i.e. bulk and hybrid) were characterized through the FESEM, FTIR, XRD, TGA/DTA, UV-vis and BET/BJH surface area methods and went through the aqueous phase reaction carried out under mild conditions. These as-synthesized materials were revealed to be promising candidates for widespread investigations of the ODHP reaction. Ultimately, the current investigations of different vanadium-based and vanadium on graphene catalysts led to desirable and challenging materials providing high propylene production while minimizing the COx formation.
References
B. Barghi , M. Fattahi and F. Khorasheh , Kinetic modeling of propane dehydrogenation over an industrial catalyst in the presence of oxygenated compounds, React. Kinet., Mech. Catal., 2012, 107 , 141 —155 CrossRef CAS .
S. A. Al-Ghamdi and H. I. de Lasa , Propylene production via propane oxidative dehydrogenation over VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalyst, Fuel, 2014, 128 , 120 —140 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M.Heinritz-Adrian, S.Wenzel and F.Youssef, Advanced propane dehydrogenation, Petroleum Technology Quarterly (PTQ), 2008, vol. 13(1), pp. 83, 85–86, 88, 91.
K. Buker , S. Donnermeyer , H. Gehrke and M. Heinritz-Adrian , STAR Process for the On-purpose Production of Propylene, Oil, Gas, 2010, 36 , 40 —44 Search PubMed .
E. A. Mamedov and V. Cortes Corberan , Oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes on vanadium oxide-based catalysts. The present state of the art and outlooks, Appl. Catal., A, 1995, 127 , 1 —40 CrossRef CAS .
F. Arena , F. Frusteri and A. Parmaliana , Structure and dispersion of supported-vanadia catalysts. Influence of the oxide carrier, Appl. Catal., A, 1999, 176 , 189 —199 CrossRef CAS .
A. H. Shahbazi Kootenaei , J. Towfighi , A. Khodadadi and Y. Mortazavi , Stability and catalytic performance of vanadia supported on nanostructured titania catalyst in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, Appl. Surf. Sci., 2014, 289 , 26 —35 CrossRef PubMed .
G. Deo and I. E. Wachs , Effect of Additives on the Structure and Reactivity of the Surface Vanadium Oxide Phase in V2O5/TiO2 Catalysts, J. Catal., 1994, 146 , 335 —345 CrossRef CAS .
D. S. Su , N. Maksimova , J. J. Delgado , N. Keller , G. Mestl , M. J. Ledoux and R. Schlögl , Nanocarbons in selective oxidative dehydrogenation reaction, Catal. Today, 2005, 102–103 , 110 —114 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
Z.-J. Sui , J.-H. Zhou , Y.-C. Dai and W.-K. Yuan , Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over Catalysts Based on Carbon Nanofibers, Catal. Today, 2005, 106 , 90 —94 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
X. Liu , D. S. Su and R. Schlögl , Oxidative dehydrogenation of 1-butene to butadiene over carbon nanotube catalysts, Carbon, 2008, 46 , 547 —549 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
G. Mestl , N. I. Maksimova , N. Keller , V. V. Roddatis and R. Schlögl , Carbon Nanofilaments in Heterogeneous Catalysis: An Industrial Application for New Carbon Materials?, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2001, 40 , 2066 —2068 CrossRef CAS .
M. J. Ledoux , C. Crouzet , C. Pham-Huu , V. Turines , K. Kourtakis , P. L. Mills and J. J. Lerou , High-Yield Butane to Maleic Anhydride Direct Oxidation on Vanadyl Pyrophosphate Supported on Heat-Conductive Materials: β-SiC, Si3N4, and BN, J. Catal., 2001, 203 , 495 —508 CrossRef CAS .
M. Fattahi , M. Kazemeini , F. Khorasheh and A. M. Rashidi , Vanadium Pentoxide Catalyst over Carbon-based Nanomaterials for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2013, 52 , 16128 —16141 CrossRef CAS .
L. Mai , W. Chen , Q. Xu , Q. Zhu , C. Han and J. Peng , Cost-saving synthesis of vanadium oxide nanotubes, Solid State Commun., 2003, 126 , 541 —543 CrossRef CAS .
Z. Nawaz and F. Wei , Light-alkane oxidative dehydrogenation to light olefins over platinum-based SAPO-34 zeolite-supported catalyst, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2013, 52 , 346 —352 CrossRef CAS .
J. Livage Vanadium pentoxide gels, Chem. Mater., 1991, 3 , 578 —593 CrossRef CAS .
P. Liu , I. L. Moudrakovski , J. Liu and A. Sayari , Mesostructured vanadium oxide containing dodecylamine, Chem. Mater., 1997, 9 , 2513 —2520 CrossRef CAS .
T. Chirayil , P. Y. Zavalij and M. S. Whittingham , Hydrothermal synthesis of vanadium oxides, Chem. Mater., 1998, 10 , 2629 —2640 CrossRef CAS .
A. Ghozatloo , M. Shariaty-Niasar and A. M. Rashidi , Preparation of nanofluids from functionalized graphene by new alkaline method and study on the thermal conductivity and stability, Int. Commun. Heat Mass Transfer, 2013, 42 , 89 —94 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
R. Jabari Seresht , M. Jahanshahi , A. Rashidi and A. A. Ghoreyshi , Synthesize and characterization of Graphene nanosheets with high surface area and nano-porous structure, Appl. Surf. Sci., 2013, 276 , 672 —681 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Bouhedja , N. Steunou , J. Maquet and J. Livage , Synthesis of Polyoxovanadates from Aqueous Solutions, J. Solid State Chem., 2001, 162 , 315 —321 CrossRef CAS .
F. Huang , H. Zhang and J. F. Banfield , Two-Stage Crystal-Growth Kinetics Observed during Hydrothermal Coarsening of Nanocrystalline ZnS, Nano Lett., 2003, 3 , 373 —378 CrossRef CAS .
J. W. Lee , S. Y. Lim , H. M. Jeong , T. H. Hwang , J. K. Kang and J. W. Choi , Extremely stable cycling of ultra-thin V2O5 nanowire-graphene electrodes for lithium rechargeable battery cathodes, Energy Environ. Sci., 2012, 5 , 9889 —9894 CrossRef CAS .
J. Kim , L. J. Cote , F. Kim , W. Yuan , K. R. Shull and J. Huang , Graphene oxide sheets at interfaces, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 8180 —8186 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
F. Sediri and N. Gharbi , From crystalline V2O5 to nanostructured vanadium oxides using aromatic amines as templates, J. Phys. Chem. Solids, 2007, 68 , 1821 —1829 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S.-F. Ma , J. Liang , J.-F. Zhao and B.-S. Xu , Synthesis, characterization and growth mechanism of flower-like vanadium carbide hierarchical nanocrystals, CrystEngComm, 2010, 12 , 750 —754 RSC .
K. S. W. Sing , D. H. Everett , R. A. W. Haul , L. Moscou , R. A. Pierotti , J. Rouquerol and T. Siemieniewska , Reporting physisorption data for gas/solid systems with special reference to the determination of surface area and porosity, Pure Appl. Chem., 1985, 57 , 603 —619 CrossRef CAS .
J.-C. Valmalette and J.-R. Gavarri , High efficiency thermochromic VO2(R) resulting from the irreversible transformation of VO2(B), Mater. Sci. Eng., B, 1998, 54 , 168 —173 CrossRef .
L. Li and Y. Li , A simple model for growth of semiconductor nanorods using lamellar precursors, Mater. Chem. Phys., 2005, 94 , 1 —6 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
V. V. Fomichev , P. I. Ukrainskaya and T. M. Ilyin , Vibrational spectra and electrostatic fields of V2O5 and lithium vanadium bronzes, Spectrochim. Acta, Part A, 1997, 53 , 1833 —1837 CrossRef .
C. V. Subba Reddy , E. H. Walker Jr. , S. A. Wicker Sr. , Q. L. Williams and R. R. Kalluru , Synthesis of VO2(B) nanorods for Li battery application, Curr. Appl. Phys., 2009, 9 , 1195 —1198 CrossRef PubMed .
X. Gao , J. Jang and H. Nagase , Hydrazine and Thermal Reduction of Graphene Oxide: Reaction Mechanisms, Product Structures, and Reaction Design, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 832 —842 CrossRef CAS .
C. A. Carrero , C. J. Keturakis , A. Orrego , R. Schomäcker and I. E. Wachs , Anomalous reactivity of supported V2O5 nanoparticles for propane oxidative dehydrogenation: influence of the vanadium oxide precursor, Dalton Trans., 2013, 42 , 12644 —12653 RSC .
C. Carrero , M. Kauer , A. Dinse , T. Wolfram , N. Hamilton , A. Trunschke , R. Schlögl and R. Schomäcker , High performance (VOx)n-(TiOx)m/SBA-15 catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, Catal. Sci. Technol., 2014, 4 , 786 —794 CrossRef CAS .
D. Y. Jang , H. G. Jang , G. R. Kim and G.-J. Kim , Oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane on nano-carbon catalysts having graphitic structures, Res. Chem. Intermed., 2011, 37 , 1145 —1156 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. Zhang , X. Liu , R. Blume , A. Zhang , R. Schlögl and D. S. Su , Surface-Modified Carbon Nanotubes Catalyze Oxidative Dehydrogenation of n-Butane, Science, 2008, 322 , 73 —77 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M. Fattahi , M. Kazemeini , F. Khorasheh and A. M. Rashidi , Kinetic modeling of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) over a vanadium-graphene catalyst: Application of the DOE and ANN methodologies, J. Ind. Eng. Chem., 2014, 20 , 2236 —2247 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
E. V. Kondratenko , O. Ovsitser , J. Radnik , M. Schneider , R. Kraehnert and U. Dingerdissen , Influence of reaction conditions on catalyst composition and selective/non-selective reaction pathways of the ODP reaction over V2O3, VO2 and V2O5 with O2 and N2O, Appl. Catal., A, 2007, 319 , 98 —110 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Balderas-Tapia , I. Hernández-Pérez , P. Schacht , I. R. Córdova and G. G. Aguilar-Ríos , Influence of reducibility of vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides on the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, Catal. Today, 2005, 107–108 , 371 —376 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
P. D. Clark , N. I. Dowling , X. Long and Y. Li , Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene in the presence of H2S at short contact times, J. Sulfur Chem., 2004, 25 , 381 —387 CrossRef CAS .
S. Sugiyama , Y. Iizuka , E. Nitta , H. Hayashi and J. B. Moffat , Role of Tetrachloromethane as a Gas-Phase Additive in the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over Cerium Oxide, J. Catal., 2000, 189 , 233 —237 CrossRef CAS .
R. Bulánek , A. Kalužová , M. Setnička , A. Zukal , P. Čičmanec and J. Mayerová , Study of vanadium based mesoporous silicas for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and n-butane, Catal. Today, 2012, 179 , 149 —158 CrossRef PubMed .
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
