I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Catalytic Interplay of Ga, Pt, and Ce on the Alumina Surface Enabling High Activity, Selectivity, and Stability in Propane Dehydrogenation
Abstract
Pt-based bimetallic catalysts have been widely investigated in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) owing to their high activity in CH cleavage and propylene selectivity. However, upon repeated coke oxidation for catalyst regeneration, they suffer from significant metal sintering and dealloying. Recently, γ-Al2O3 doped with Ga, Pt, and Ce was reported to exhibit superior catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability in PDH, but the catalytic role of each element has not been clearly understood because of the complexity of this system. In this study, we rigorously investigated the reaction mechanism and catalytic interplay of each component (Ga, Pt, and Ce). Selective poisoning, in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy, and H2D2 exchange revealed that Ga3+ is responsible for the heterolytic dissociation of the CH bond of propane, while Pt0 facilitates the sluggish H recombination into H2 via reverse spillover. Catalyst deactivation during repeated reactionregeneration cycles is mainly due to the irreversible sintering of Pt0. Notably, optimal Ce doping (2 wt %) selectively generated atomically dispersed Ce3+ sites on the γ-Al2O3 surface, which greatly suppressed the sintering of Pt0 particles by increasing the metalsupport interactions. In contrast, excessive Ce loading generated discrete CeO2 domains, which stabilized the Pt species in the form of Pt2+ inactive for H recombination. Thus, excessive Ce loading led to an even more severe loss of catalytic activity and selectivity. The present results demonstrate that the selective generation of atomically dispersed Ce3+ on the γ-Al2O3 surface is important for stabilizing Pt0 species, which is essential for simultaneously achieving high catalytic activity, selectivity, and longevity in PDH.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane dehydrogenation platinum gallium cerium sintering spillover
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propylene is an important olefin feedstock in the petrochemical industry and is mainly produced by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) of naphtha and other oil-based products. (15) However, over the last decade, the increased availability of shale gas has shifted the reactant feedstock from petroleum-based naphtha to shale-based ethane. (5) Unlike naphtha steam cracking, which produces C2C4 olefins simultaneously, ethane cracking predominantly produces ethylene, which leads to a decreased supply of propylene. Therefore, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for the on-purpose production of propylene is currently receiving scientific attention. (15)
The dehydrogenation of light alkanes, such as propane, is an endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction, which requires very high reaction temperatures (773973 K) to achieve high olefin yields. (14,6) Pt-based catalysts have been widely investigated because of their high activity in CH cleavage and thermal stability. However, under harsh reaction conditions, conventional Pt catalysts suffer from low olefin selectivity and fast deactivation via coke deposition. Various strategies have been used to overcome these problems, such as alloying with other elements (e.g., Sn, (716) Zn, (1719) Ga, (2022) Cu, (2325) Fe, (26) GaPb, (27) and rare-earth (28)), and the introduction of base promoters (alkali ions such as K+) (7,8,14,15,29) on the support surface. The catalyst properties can be substantially improved by combining these strategies, but complete inhibition of catalyst deactivation via coke formation is still not possible under the harsh reaction conditions. Therefore, periodic coke combustion is inevitable for regenerating catalytic activity. It is noteworthy that the heat required for endothermic dehydrogenation is also often supplied by coke combustion in various commercial dehydrogenation processes. (14)
Repeated regeneration of Pt-based catalysts via simple coke oxidation causes significant Pt sintering and irreversible loss of catalytic activity. Therefore, an industrial dehydrogenation process such as Oleflex (UOP) uses oxychlorination to redisperse the sintered Pt-based catalysts during regeneration. However, it requires the use of corrosion-resistant metallurgy for reactor design and alkali treatment of the exhaust gas to remove corrosive chlorine compounds. (3) Numerous studies have been conducted to improve the sintering resistance of Pt-based catalysts. (1015,18,25,30) In the case of PtSn catalysts, Sn is known to suppress Pt sintering by providing strong anchoring sites on the support surface. (911) It has been reported that the atomically dispersed Sn species on the defect-rich graphene surface can even stabilize Pt3 clusters. (3133) The use of support materials providing strong interactions with Pt, such as CeO2, (12) γ-Al2O3, (13) and MgAl2O4 spinel, (25) is helpful for inhibiting Pt sintering. Recently, it was reported that the encapsulation of bimetallic PtSn (14,15) and PtZn (18) clusters within the micropores of alkali (e.g., K+ and Cs+)-modified silicalite can enhance the sintering resistance because of the physical confinement and strong Pt-alkali interactions.
Sattler et al. reported a highly active and stable γ-Al2O3 catalyst supported with Ga (3 wt %) and a trace amount of Pt (0.1 wt %). (29) Upon repeated catalyst regeneration via simple coke oxidation, this catalyst initially showed a decrease in catalytic activity, but thereafter it showed remarkable stability compared to conventional Pt-based catalysts. The researchers proposed that the catalyst could exhibit such high stability because the main active site is Ga3+ embedded within the γ-Al2O3 framework and a small amount of Pt particles acts as a promoter. Because of its outstanding stability under oxidative conditions, this type of catalyst has been tested in the continuous dehydrogenationregeneration process using a fluidized bed reactor, which enables highly efficient heat integration between the endothermic PDH and exothermic coke combustion (FCDh process from DOW Chemical). (3,4) More recently, our group reported that additional Ce doping on this catalyst could further suppress catalyst deactivation during repeated dehydrogenationregeneration cycles. (30) Thus far, however, the catalytic functions of each element (Ga, Pt, and Ce) and their synergy have not been clearly understood because of the complexity of this catalyst system. Recently, density functional theory (DFT) calculations have been performed to understand the catalytic roles of Pt and Ga in Pt-doped Ga2O3. The calculations indicated that PtO is likely to facilitate the CH bond activation in propane, whereas GaO is responsible for H recombination. (34,35) However, these calculations postulated the atomically dispersed cationic Pt on the Ga2O3 surface, which is different from the earlier experimental results indicating the formation of reduced Pt particles under PDH reaction conditions. (29,30)
In the present study, the PDH reaction mechanism and catalytic interplay of Ga, Pt, and Ce on the γ-Al2O3 surface are carefully investigated by combining various techniques, including selective poisoning experiments, in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS), DFT calculations, and H2D2 isotope scrambling. The results demonstrate that Lewis acidic Ga3+ is responsible for the heterolytic dissociation of the CH bond in propane while Pt0 facilitates the sluggish H recombination step via reverse spillover. Notably, we demonstrate that atomically dispersed Ce3+ on the γ-Al2O3 surface greatly suppresses the sintering of Pt0 particles by providing enhanced metalsupport interactions, whereas discrete CeO2 domains stabilize Pt in the form of inactive Pt2+ species. Therefore, selective generation of atomically dispersed Ce3+ on the γ-Al2O3 surface is important for stabilizing Pt0 species, which is essential for simultaneously achieving high catalytic activity, selectivity, and longevity in PDH.
2. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalytic Roles of Ga and Pt Supported on γ-Al2O3
To investigate the catalytic functions of Ga and Pt, we prepared three γ-Al2O3 catalysts containing Ga (denoted as GaAL), Pt (Pt/AL), and both of Ga and Pt (Pt/GaAL). According to inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), all Pt-containing catalysts had a Pt content of 0.1  0.01 wt %, whereas the Ga-containing samples had a Ga content of 3.0  0.1 wt %. The Ga-containing samples exhibited typical X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of γ-Al2O3 without distinguishable peaks for the Ga2O3 polymorphs (Figure S1). This result is consistent with earlier studies showing that Ga can be isomorphically substituted within the γ-Al2O3 framework, forming a solid solution. (36,37) The N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms (Figure S2) revealed that the catalysts had similar surface areas and pore structural properties (Table 1). In the pyridine Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra (Figure S3), the samples showed five major bands at 1612, 1595, 1576, 1490, and 1448 cm1, all of which could be assigned to pyridine coordinated to Lewis acid sites. (38) Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) of NH3 (Figure S4) revealed that GaAL and Pt/GaAL possessed larger amounts of strong acid sites (0.250.26 mmol g1) than Pt/AL (0.11 mmol g1) (Table 1), indicating that Ga doping of γ-Al2O3 enhanced the formation of strong Lewis acid sites. Ga 2p X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) confirmed that Ga existed as Ga3+ in all of the Ga-containing samples (Figure S5).
Table 1. Physicochemical Properties of the Catalysts
  composition (wt %)a       ANH3 (mmol g1)e  
catalyst Pt Ga Ce SBET (m2 g1)b Vtot (cm3 g1)c pore size (nm)d peak I peak II fraction of u (%)f
Pt/AL 0.1     256 0.21 4.5 0.20 0.11  
GaAL   3.0   254 0.20 4.5 0.22 0.25  
Pt/GaAL 0.1 3.0   252 0.20 4.6 0.19 0.26  
2Ce-Pt/GaAL 0.1 3.0 2.0 250 0.21 4.6 0.21 0.27 0 (0)g
10Ce-Pt/GaAL 0.1 3.0 10 230 0.18 4.3 0.20 0.26 6.0 (43)
20Ce-Pt/GaAL 0.1 3.0 20 185 0.16 4.9 0.22 0.25 9.2 (66)
aDetermined by ICP-AES.
bBrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) surface area was determined in the P/P0 range of 0.050.15.
cTotal pore volume was evaluated at P/P0 = 0.98.
dPore size was calculated using the NLDFT method.
eAmount of acid sites was quantified using NH3-TPD (peak I: 423723 K and peak II: 7231173 K).
fFraction of u was calculated from the area ratio of the u peak over the total Ce 3d region in XPS.
gValues in parentheses represent the percentage of Ce4+ in the sample, estimated from the area ratio of the u peak.
With the prepared catalysts, PDH was carried out below a propane conversion of 10% to measure the propylene formation rates. GaAL and Pt/AL exhibited very low propylene formation rates (0.010.02 mmolC3H6 gcat1 s1) (Figure 1). In contrast, Pt/GaAL showed a remarkably enhanced propylene formation rate (0.17 mmolC3H6 gcat1 s1), indicating a great synergy between Ga and Pt. The synergistic effect was further confirmed by evaluating the propylene formation rates while selectively poisoning Lewis acidic Ga3+ with H2O or metallic Pt0 with CO (Figure 1). The propylene formation rate of GaAL decreased significantly upon H2O addition (80% decrease) but not upon CO addition (9% decrease). These results indicate that the Lewis acidic Ga3+ sites are the main active sites of GaAL in PDH. In contrast, Pt/AL exhibits substantially reduced catalytic activity with the addition of CO (85% decrease) but not with H2O addition (1% decrease), indicating that metallic Pt0 is the main active site. In the case of Pt/GaAL, the specific activities drastically decreased upon the addition of both H2O and CO. This result clearly indicates the synergistic interplay between Lewis acidic Ga3+ and metallic Pt0 in the Pt/GaAL catalyst.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Specific activities of propylene formation under different atmospheres at 893 K (black: 20 kPa C3H8/80 kPa He; blue: 20 kPa C3H8/2 kPa H2O/78 kPa He; red: 20 kPa C3H8/2 kPa CO/78 kPa He).
To understand the catalytic roles of Ga and Pt, in situ DRIFTS was carried out under a flow of 5 kPa propane at 773 K. When propane was introduced into the sample cell (red lines in Figure 2), GaAL and Pt/GaAL exhibited newly appearing bands for OH stretching (3750 cm1) and GaH stretching (1969 cm1). (38,39) Pt/GaAL showed an additional band at 2054 cm1, which could be assigned to the PtH stretching (this band was also observed in the DRIFTS spectrum of Pt/AL treated in H2, as shown in Figure S6). (40,41) The surface OH groups can be generated when Lewis acidic Ga3+ and adjacent basic oxygen are responsible for the heterolytic dissociation of the CH bond (Figure 3). On the other hand, GaH species are likely to be generated due to the subsequent decomposition of Gapropyl to produce propylene. (37,39) When the propane supply was switched off and subsequent He purging was carried out for 30 min (blue lines in Figure 2), Pt/GaAL exhibited almost complete disappearance of the GaH, PtH, and OH stretching bands, indicating rapid H recombination into H2. In contrast, GaAL exhibited only slight decreases in intensities for the GaH and OH stretching bands, indicating slow H recombination. These results imply that metallic Pt0 on the GaAL surface facilitates sluggish recombination of H into H2 via reverse spillover (Figure 3), which might result in a dramatic enhancement of PDH activity and selectivity. H spillover or reverse spillover over the γ-Al2O3 surface is known to be energetically plausible at elevated temperatures because of its abundant Lewis acidity. (42,43)
Figure 2
Figure 2. In situ DRIFTS spectra of GaAL and Pt/GaAL under the sequential flows of He (gray), 5 kPa C3H8 (red), and He (blue) at 773 K. Each gas flow was held for 30 min. (a) OH and (b) metalH stretching regions of GaAL (top) and Pt/GaAL (bottom).
Figure 3
Figure 3. Proposed reaction mechanism for propane dehydrogenation over Pt/GaAL.
The stabilities of the GaAL, Pt/AL, and Pt/GaAL catalysts were investigated during 10 consecutive reactionregeneration cycles of PDH (Figure 4). For each cycle, the PDH reaction was carried out for 1 h and then simple air oxidation at the reaction temperature (893 K) was conducted for catalyst regeneration. All catalysts exhibited substantial deactivation within 1 h (>30%, Figure S7), a phenomenon which is quite common for PDH reactions at high temperatures (>873 K) without the addition of H2 or H2O. GaAL completely maintained catalytic performance over repeated cycles (propane conversion of 17% and propylene selectivity of 91%). Conversely, Pt/AL exhibited an initial propane conversion of 10% at the 1st cycle, but it substantially declined to 4% at the 10th cycle. The selectivity of Pt/AL also rapidly decreased from 91 to 30% owing to the increased formation of hydrogenolysis products (C1C2). High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) revealed that the surface-weighted mean diameter of Pt particles (dsurf) was 3.7 nm after the 1st reactionregeneration cycle, but it increased to 12 nm after the 10th cycle (Figure S8). The result indicated that significant deactivation of Pt/AL was attributed to the sintering of Pt. In the case of Pt/GaAL, the initial propane conversion at the 1st cycle was 57% and decreased to 40% at the 10th cycle, whereas the propylene selectivity slightly decreased from 97 to 96%. Considering the high stability of GaAL, the appreciable deactivation of Pt/GaAL can be attributed to the structural change of Pt on the surface of GaAL. As expected, HAADF-STEM revealed that the dsurf of Pt particles was 3.9 nm after the 1st reactionregeneration cycle, but it increased to 11 nm after the 10th cycle (Figure S9). The present result implies that suppressing Pt sintering in Pt/GaAL is necessary for maintaining its high PDH activity and selectivity. Notably, elemental mapping by energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) showed that Ga positions were not localized on the surface of Pt particles but were uniformly distributed over the γ-Al2O3 surface, regardless of the reaction cycles (Figure S10). This indicated that Ga3+ substituted within the γ-Al2O3 framework was highly stable; thus, bimetallic PtGa particles were not formed upon repeated reactionregeneration cycles. Earlier studies combining in situ XPS, temperature-programmed reduction, and X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) investigations also demonstrated that Ga3+ substituted within γ-Al2O3 was stable and nonreducible even at elevated temperatures (1073 K). (29,30)
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Propane conversions and (b) propylene selectivities of GaAL, Pt/AL, and Pt/GaAL catalysts observed for 10 consecutive reactionregeneration cycles (reaction conditions: 893 K, 20 kPa C3H8/80 kPa He, WHSV = 5.4 h1, 1 h and regeneration conditions: 893 K, 20 kPa O2/80 kPa N2, 30 min). The reported conversions and selectivities were determined at the time-on-stream of 10 min for each reaction cycle.
2.2. Effects of Additional Ce Doping onto Pt/GaAL
We previously reported that Ce doping onto Pt/GaAL could effectively suppress Pt sintering, which resulted in the remarkably enhanced retention of catalytic activity and selectivity over repeated PDH cycles. (30) However, the Ce structure on the γ-Al2O3 surface and the mechanism of Pt stabilization have not been investigated. To understand the role of Ce in Pt stabilization, we incorporated different loadings of Ce (2, 10, and 20 wt %) onto the Pt/GaAL catalyst. The resultant samples are denoted as xCe-Pt/GaAL, where x indicates the wt % of Ce. The 2Ce-Pt/GaAL sample exhibited XRD peaks only for γ-Al2O3, whereas 10Ce-Pt/GaAL and 20Ce-Pt/GaAL showed additional peaks for CeO2 (Figure S11). The formation of CeAlO3 was not detected because of the low Ce/Al molar ratios (0.0080.095) and high synthesis temperature (1023 K), which induced the decomposition of CeAlO3 into CeO2 and Al2O3. (44) As the Ce content increased, the BET surface area and pore volume of the samples decreased slightly (Table 1 and Figure S12). In the pyridine FT-IR spectra (Figure S13), the xCe-Pt/GaAL samples showed only the bands corresponding to the pyridine coordinated to Lewis acid sites. (38) The band intensities were similar regardless of the Ce loading (x), indicating that Ce doping did not considerably influence the number of Lewis acid sites. The NH3-TPD profiles and the corresponding acid amounts were similar (Figure S14 and Table 1). Because Ce doping did not significantly change the Lewis acidity of GaAL, the Pt-free xCe-GaAL samples exhibited comparable propane conversion and propylene selectivity in the PDH reaction (Figure S15).
To analyze the Ce structure of xCe-Pt/GaAL samples, we first investigated the Pt-free xCe-GaAL samples using HAADF-STEM, as the dispersed Pt and Ce species are difficult to distinguish. The investigation revealed that Ce mainly existed as an atomically dispersed species in 2Ce-GaAL (Figure 5a). As the Ce loading increased further (10Ce-GaAL and 20Ce-GaAL), discrete CeO2 domains were increasingly observed in addition to the atomically dispersed Ce species (Figures 5b and S16), which is consistent with the earlier XRD data. In the radial distribution function obtained from the Fourier transform of the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS), 2Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited an appreciable first shell CeO (1.9 Å) contribution but a negligible second shell CeCe (3.5 Å) contribution (Figure 5c). (45) This result indicates the predominant presence of atomically dispersed Ce species. Conversely, 10Ce-Pt/GaAL and 20Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited significant contributions from both shells, confirming the formation of discrete CeO2 domains. In the Ce 3d XPS spectra (Figure 5d), 2Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited similar features to those of CeCl3 (Ce3+) without the u peak (917 eV) originating from the Ce4+ species. Conversely, 10Ce-Pt/GaAL and 20Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited a clear u peak. As the Ce content increased, the area percentage of the u peak and the calculated portion of Ce4+ gradually increased (Table 1), indicating a more pronounced formation of CeO2. (46,47)
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a, b) HAADF-STEM images of Pt-free (a) 2Ce-GaAL and (b) 20Ce-GaAL. (c) Fourier transforms of k3-weighted Ce K-edge EXAFS and (d) Ce 3d XPS spectra of xCe-Pt/GaAL samples.
The catalytic stabilities of xCe-Pt/GaAL were investigated during 10 consecutive PDH reactionregeneration cycles (Figure 6). In the 1st cycle, 2Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited slightly improved propane conversion and propylene selectivity compared to those of Pt/GaAL. Upon repeated reaction cycles, 2Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited much slower deactivation than Pt/GaAL. Conversely, 10Ce-Pt/GaAL and 20Ce-Pt/GaAL with increased Ce loadings exhibited considerably lower propane conversion and propylene selectivity than Pt/GaAL at the 1st cycle. In addition, these samples showed faster loss of propane conversion and propylene selectivity than Pt/GaAL upon repeated reaction cycles. Notably, the catalytic properties of 20Ce-Pt/GaAL converged on those of Pt-free GaAL after the 4th reaction cycle, indicating that the promotional effect of Pt completely disappeared. These results indicate that the optimal Ce loading (2 wt %) is highly advantageous for enhancing catalyst stability, whereas excessive Ce loading plays a detrimental role. Given the earlier structural analysis of Ce, it can be interpreted that the atomically dispersed Ce3+ is helpful for stabilizing the catalytically active Pt species, whereas the formation of discrete CeO2 is undesirable.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Propane conversions and (b) propylene selectivities of xCe-Pt/GaAL observed for 10 consecutive reactionregeneration cycles (reaction conditions: 893 K, 20 kPa C3H8/80 kPa He, WHSV = 5.4 h1, 1 h and regeneration conditions: 893 K, 20 kPa O2/80 kPa N2, 30 min). The reported conversions and selectivities were determined at the time-on-stream of 10 min for each reaction cycle.
The Pt particle size distributions of the catalysts were investigated in the course of repeated PDH cycles using HAADF-STEM. The Pt particle diameter (dsurf) of Pt/GaAL was 3.9 nm after the 1st cycle and increased to 11 nm after the 10th cycle (Figure S9). Compared to these values, 2Ce-Pt/GaAL (Figure 7a,b) showed remarkably enhanced Pt sintering resistance (1.6 nm after the 1st cycle; 3.8 nm after the 10th cycle). Thus, the superior catalytic stability of 2Ce-Pt/GaAL can be attributed to its high Pt sintering resistance. Interestingly, the 10Ce-Pt/GaAL (Figure S17) and 20Ce-Pt/GaAL samples (Figure 7c,d) exhibited even more suppressed Pt sintering, indicating effective Pt stabilization. This means that the rapid deactivation of these catalysts cannot be explained by the sintering of Pt particles visible in HAADF-STEM.
Figure 7
Figure 7. HAADF-STEM images of (a, b) 2Ce-Pt/GaAL and (c, d) 20Ce-Pt/GaAL, after the 1st (a, c) and 10th (b, d) PDH reactionregeneration cycles. Insets are the size distributions of visible Pt particles.
To obtain additional insight into the deactivation of 10Ce-Pt/GaAL and 20Ce-Pt/GaAL, the oxidation state of Pt was additionally analyzed using XANES (Figures S18S21). As summarized in Figure 8, the Pt oxidation states of Pt/GaAL and 2Ce-Pt/GaAL were maintained below 0.2 over the reaction cycles, indicating the predominant presence of metallic Pt0. Conversely, the Pt oxidation state of 20Ce-Pt/GaAL gradually increased and plateaued at 2+ with increasing reaction cycles. 10Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited an intermediate behavior. This result implies that the discrete CeO2 domains, particularly abundant in 20Ce-Pt/GaAL, stabilize Pt as a cationic Pt2+ species. This is consistent with earlier reports showing that mobile Pt species formed under oxidative conditions are stabilized as Pt2+ at the defective CeO2 surface. (4852) Our reaction results showed that such Pt2+ species has a limited promotional effect in PDH.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Average Pt oxidation states of the catalysts in the course of repeated reaction cycles. The oxidation state was evaluated by linear combination fitting (LCF) of Pt LIII-edge XANES spectra (Figures S18S21).
2.3. DFT Calculations for Understanding PtCe Interactions
DFT calculations were performed to understand the interactions between Pt and Ce. Three different surface models were investigated: (i) γ-Al2O3 (100), (ii) γ-Al2O3 (100) doped with atomically dispersed Ce, and (iii) defective CeO2 (111) with Ce vacancies. Our calculations indicated that the atomically dispersed Ce on the γ-Al2O3 (100) surface is stabilized by four oxygen atoms and has an oxidation state of 3+ (Figure S22), which is in good agreement with the earlier Ce 3d XPS results. The adsorption energy of the Pt atom on each surface was calculated after examining all possible adsorption sites. The converged molecular geometries and energies of Pt adsorption are shown in Figure 9. On the γ-Al2O3 surface, the Pt atom was stabilized by two O atoms and one Al atom, which is consistent with an earlier report. (53) Our calculations show that the atomically dispersed Ce on γ-Al2O3 further stabilizes Pt via strong PtCe interactions. On the defective CeO2 surface, the Pt atom prefers to be located at the Ce vacancy and is stabilized by the surrounding O atoms. Pt adsorption became stronger in the order of γ-Al2O3 (3.47 eV) < atomic Ce-doped γ-Al2O3 (6.19 eV) < defective CeO2 (10.21 eV). According to our calculation, Pt cohesive energy (5.51 eV) is weaker than the Pt adsorption energies on the atomic Ce-doped γ-Al2O3 (6.19 eV) and defective CeO2 (10.21 eV) but stronger than that on γ-Al2O3 (3.47 eV). This result indicates that both atomic Ce-doped γ-Al2O3 and defective CeO2 surfaces are effective in inhibiting Pt sintering.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Optimized geometries and adsorption energies of the Pt atom on (a) γ-Al2O3, (b) atomic Ce-doped γ-Al2O3, and (c) defective CeO2 surfaces.
The oxidation state of Pt was investigated by the 4f core-level shift of Pt in each optimized structure. The core-level of Pt on the atomic Ce-doped γ-Al2O3 surface (102.22 eV) was only slightly shifted (0.31 eV shift) compared to that of Pt on γ-Al2O3 (101.91 eV). This indicates that Pt on the atomic Ce-doped γ-Al2O3 surface possesses a very low oxidation state (i.e., metallic Pt0). Conversely, Pt on the defective CeO2 surface exhibited a substantial negative shift in the core-level (104.58 eV; 2.67 eV shift), indicating a higher Pt oxidation state. These results support the fact that the atomic Ce-doped γ-Al2O3 can stabilize Pt mainly in the form of metallic Pt0, whereas discrete CeO2 domains stabilize Pt as a cationic species. This is consistent with the earlier XANES analysis showing that Pt/GaAL and 2Ce-Pt/GaAL mainly possessed Pt0 after 10 repeated PDH cycles, whereas 20Ce-Pt/GaAL included Pt2+ species.
2.4. Importance of the H Recombination Rate on PDH Activity and Selectivity
We additionally carried out H2D2 exchange experiments with the catalysts because the HD formation rate can be used as a descriptor of the H recombination rate in PDH. The H2D2 exchange reaction includes two steps: (i) dissociative adsorption of H2/D2 and (ii) desorption of HD (recombination). It is generally accepted that H2/D2 dissociation is barrierless on the Pt surface; thus, recombination is the rate-limiting step. (54) In Figure 10a, the HD formation rates of the spent catalysts collected after the 1st and 10th PDH reactionregeneration cycles are shown. GaAL exhibited the lowest HD formation rate (0.4 mmolHD gcat1 s1) after the 1st cycle, which was stable even after the 10th cycle. This indicates that Pt-free GaAL exhibits stable but limited activity in H recombination. Pt/GaAL showed a much higher HD formation rate (5.0 mmolHD gcat1 s1) than GaAL (0.4 mmolHD gcat1 s1) after the 1st cycle, indicating that a trace amount of Pt (0.1 wt %) remarkably facilitated the H recombination. However, the HD formation rate significantly decreased (3.7 mmolHD gcat1 s1) after the 10th cycle, which could be attributed to the significant Pt sintering, as mentioned earlier (from 3.9 to 11 nm). 2Ce-Pt/GaAL exhibited a higher HD formation rate (6.2 mmolHD gcat1 s1) than Pt/GaAL after the 1st cycle and also showed a much higher retention of the HD formation rate after the 10th cycle (5.6 mmolHD gcat1 s1). This could be attributed to the fact that the atomically dispersed Ce3+ sites effectively suppressed Pt sintering (from 1.6 to 3.8 nm). The 10Ce-Pt/GaAL and 20Ce-Pt/GaAL samples containing CeO2 showed a decreased HD formation rate with increased Ce loading. These samples also showed a significant loss in the HD formation rate after 10 repeated reactionregeneration cycles, which was attributed to the increased Pt oxidation state rather than Pt sintering, as indicated by earlier HAADF-STEM (Figure 7) and XANES (Figure 8) analyses. This result confirms that Pt2+ stabilized in CeO2 is not active in H recombination. This is consistent with earlier reports showing that the Pt2+ stabilized in CeO2 is inactive toward H2 activation (i.e., H recombination due to microscopic reversibility). (55)
Figure 10
Figure 10. (a) HD formation rates (rHD) of the catalysts collected after the 1st (blue) and 10th (red) PDH reactionregeneration cycles. (b) Propane conversions and propylene selectivities as a function of the HD formation rates (rHD).
In Figure 10b, the propane conversion and propylene selectivity of all catalysts at the 1st and 10th PDH cycles are plotted as a function of the HD formation rate. It is remarkable that both propane conversion and propylene selectivity showed a good linear correlation with the HD formation rate, regardless of the catalyst type and freshness. The proportionality between propane conversion and HD formation rate indicates that the heterolytic dissociation of the CH bond at Lewis acidic Ga3+ is faster than the subsequent H recombination with all tested catalysts (i.e., H recombination is a rate-determining step). On the other hand, the proportionality between propylene selectivity and the HD formation rate can be explained by the fact that facilitated H recombination can reduce the surface concentration of GaH, which can induce the cracking of propane into C1C2 species. (56)
3. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this study, we investigated the catalytic interplay of Ga, Pt, and Ce supported on γ-Al2O3 in PDH. Selective poisoning, in situ DRIFTS, and H2D2 exchange experiments clearly revealed that Ga3+ is responsible for the heterolytic dissociation of the CH bond in propane, while Pt0 facilitates the rate-determining H recombination via reverse spillover. The synergy between Ga3+ and Pt0 is essential for achieving high PDH activity and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation during repeated PDH cycles was due to the irreversible sintering of Pt0 and thus the reduction of the H recombination rate. Notably, optimal doping of Ce (2 wt %) selectively generated atomically dispersed Ce3+ sites on the γ-Al2O3 surface, which suppressed the sintering of Pt0 by enhancing the metalsupport interactions. In contrast, excessive Ce loading led to the formation of discrete CeO2 domains, which stabilized Pt in the form of cationic Pt2+ species that is inactive for H recombination. Therefore, excessive Ce addition resulted in an even more severe loss of catalytic activity and selectivity compared to that of the Ce-free catalyst. The unique Pt0 stabilization by the atomically dispersed Ce3+ sites on the γ-Al2O3 surface can be used to design stable catalysts not only for PDH but also for various hydroprocessing in the petrochemical and refinery industries (such as aromatization, hydrotreating, hydrocracking, etc.).
4. Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
4.1. Catalyst Preparation
The γ-Al2O3 catalysts containing Ga (denoted as GaAL), Pt (Pt/AL), and both of Ga and Pt (Pt/GaAL) were prepared by a one-pot solgel synthesis method. In the synthesis of Pt/GaAL, 0.012 g of (NH3)4Pt(NO3)2 (Sigma-Aldrich) and 0.64 g of Ga(NO3)3 (Sigma-Aldrich) were dissolved in 200 g of deionized water at room temperature. Then, 2.3 g of concentrated HNO3 (61%, Samchun) and 23 g of aluminum isopropoxide (>98%, TCI) were sequentially added under vigorous stirring. After refluxing for 12 h at 373 K, the resultant mixture was dried in a beaker at 358 K. The resultant solid product was calcined at 1023 K (ramp: 1 K min1) under dry air flow for 2 h. GaAL and Pt/AL were prepared similarly, except for the addition of (NH3)4Pt(NO3)2 and Ga(NO3)3, respectively. The Ce-containing Pt/GaAL catalysts (denoted as xCe-Pt/GaAL; x indicates the wt % of Ce) were synthesized in a manner similar to Pt/GaAL but with the addition of Ce(NO3)3·6H2O (Samchun) into the aforementioned synthesis mixture. For Ce loadings of 2, 10, and 20 wt %, 0.36, 1.8, and 3.6 g of Ce(NO3)3·6H2O (Samchun) were added, respectively. Since there was no separate reduction treatment performed for all catalysts, Pt reduction occurred in situ under PDH reaction conditions.
4.2. Catalyst Characterization
The elemental compositions of the prepared catalysts were determined by ICP-AES using an iCAP-6500 instrument (Thermo Scientific). XRD patterns were recorded with a D2 Phaser instrument (Bruker) operating at 30 kV and 10 mA with Cu Kα as the X-ray source. N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms were measured using a Belsorp-Max (BEL Japan) adsorption analyzer at 77 K after vacuum degassing at 673 K. The BrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) surface areas were determined in the P/P0 range of 0.050.15, and total pore volumes were calculated at a P/P0 value of 0.95. Pore size distributions were determined using the nonlocal density functional theory (NLDFT) analysis. Pyridine FT-IR spectra were collected using a Nicolet iS50 spectrometer (Thermo Scientific). A self-standing wafer consisting of 30 mg of the catalyst was placed in a lab-made in situ IR cell equipped with CaF2 windows and an online vacuum system. The wafer was degassed at 673 K for 1 h under vacuum, and background spectra were collected. Pyridine vapor was introduced into the degassed cell at 423 K for 1 h, and the cell was then evacuated at 423 K for 1 h to remove weakly adsorbed pyridine molecules. The spectra were recorded with a resolution of 4.0 cm1. NH3-TPD profiles were collected using a BELCAT II instrument (BEL Japan). Typically, 50 mg of the sieved particles (200300 μm) were degassed under He flow at 673 K for 1 h and exposed to 5% NH3/He at 423 K for 1 h. Weakly adsorbed NH3 was removed by He purging for 1 h at the same temperature. TPD profiles were recorded while increasing the temperature up to 1173 K (ramp: 10 K min1) under He flow (30 mL min1). HAADF-STEM images and EDS elemental mapping images were acquired with a Titan cubed G2 60-300 microscope (FEI Co.) operating at 300 kV (KAIST Analysis Center for Research Advancement, KARA). The surface-weighted mean diameter of Pt particles (dsurf) was determined using the following equation by counting at least 200 metal particles (57)
(1)
where ni is the number of particles having a diameter of di.
In situ DRIFTS was carried out using a Nicolet iS50 spectrometer (Thermo Fisher) and a PIKE diffuse IR cell accessory. The samples were pretreated at 773 K for 4 h under He flow. After collecting the background spectra, propane (5 kPa C3H8/He) was introduced into the sample cell (10 mL min1) for 30 min at 773 K. Then, the propane flow was switched off, and He purging was carried out for 30 min (10 mL min1) at the same temperature. During this process, spectra were recorded with a resolution of 4 cm1, and 64 scans were averaged for each spectrum.
XPS measurements were carried out using a K-Alpha (Thermo Scientific) instrument equipped with a microfocused monochromator X-ray source. The binding energies were calibrated with respect to the C 1s binding energy (284.5 eV). For the analysis of Ce 3d spectra, CeCl3 and CeO2 were used as references for Ce3+ and Ce4+, respectively. The fraction of Ce4+ was determined from the area ratio of the u peak (917 eV) over the total Ce 3d region. The calculated area ratios of CeCl3 and CeO2 were 0 and 13.7%, respectively, which are close to the values reported in earlier studies. (37,38) The Ce K-edge (40443 eV) EXAFS and Pt LIII-edge (11570 eV) XANES data were collected in fluorescence mode at the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory (10C-XAFS beamline). EXAFS data were processed with Athena and analyzed with the IFEFFIT and FEFF6 codes using Artemis, part of the Demeter software package. After normalization and background removal, the k-space EXAFS spectra were Fourier-transformed into R-space after k3-weighting. XANES data were processed and analyzed using Athena software. To evaluate the average oxidation state of Pt, XANES spectra were evaluated by the linear combination fitting (LCF) analysis (from 30 to +50 eV). In the XANES fitting, the spectra of Pt foil and Na2Pt(OH)6 were used as references for Pt0 and Pt4+, respectively.
4.3. Catalytic Measurements
PDH reactions were carried out in a quartz plug flow reactor (inner diameter: 13 mm). Typically, 0.65 g of the sieved catalyst (200300 μm) was loaded into the reactor and heated to 893 K (ramp: 10 K min1) under He flow. After temperature stabilization, diluted propane (20 kPa C3H8/He, 150 mL min1) was fed into the reactor. Unless specifically mentioned, a WHSV of 5.4 h1 was used for the reaction. The reaction products were analyzed using an online gas chromatograph equipped with a GS-Alumina column and a flame ionization detector. The initial propane conversion and propylene selectivity were determined at a time-on-stream of 10 min. The cyclic stabilities of the catalysts were investigated over 10 consecutive reactionregeneration cycles. Each cycle consisted of PDH reactions for 1 h and coke oxidation under dry air (100 mL min1) for 30 min at 893 K. Between the reaction and regeneration steps, the reactor was purged with He (100 mL min1) for 30 min.
H2D2 isotope exchange was carried out in a plug flow reactor (inner diameter: 13 mm) equipped with an online quadrupole mass spectrometer (ThermoStar-GSD 320, Pfeiffer Vacuum). Typically, 10 mg of sieved catalysts (200300 μm) were diluted with 1 g of quartz particles (200300 μm) and then loaded into the reactor. The catalysts were pretreated under H2 flow (50 mL min1) at 773 K for 1 h. After cooling to 308 K under Ar flow (50 mL min1), the H2/D2 mixture gas (10 kPa H2/10 kPa D2/80 kPa Ar) was introduced into the reactor at a flow rate of 50 mL min1. The partial pressures of H2, D2, and HD in the product stream were determined from the mass spectrometer signals at m/z = 2, 4, and 3 amu, respectively. Under the present conditions, the partial pressure of HD in the product stream was always less than 10% of that at the thermodynamic equilibrium (10 kPa), and thus the backward reaction can be ignored.
4.4. DFT Calculations
Spin-polarized DFT calculations were carried out using the Vienna Ab initio Software Package, (58) PerdewBurkeErnzerhof exchange-correlation functional, (59) and projector augmented wave potentials. (60) For bulk geometry optimization, the kinetic energy cutoff of the plane-wave basis was set to 600 eV, and Monkhorst k-point meshes of (7 × 5 × 5) and (7 × 7 × 7) were used for γ-Al2O3 and CeO2, respectively. After full optimization of the bulk geometries, a (2 × 1) periodic slab model with four atomic layers combined with a 15 Å thick vacuum regime was generated for γ-Al2O3 (100), and a (2 × 2) periodic slab model with five atomic trilayers combined with a 20 Å thick vacuum regime was generated for stoichiometric CeO2 (111). To optimize and analyze the slab models, a (2 × 2 × 1) k-point grid and a plane-wave energy cutoff of 400 eV were employed. Additionally, a dipole correction was applied to all slab models along the z-direction, and two bottom layers and three bottom trilayers were fixed for the γ-Al2O3 (100) and CeO2 (111) slab models, respectively, during the geometry optimization processes.
All possible adsorption sites were considered to calculate the adsorption energies of Ce and Pt. The adsorption energy of the Pt atom (ΔEads.Pt) was determined as follows
(2)
where EPt+surf., Esurf., and EPt atom are the energy of the Pt-adsorbed surface, the energy of the bare surface, and the energy of an isolated Pt atom in the gas phase, respectively. The cohesive energy of Pt (ΔEcoh.Pt) per unit cell was calculated as follows
(3)
where EPt bulk and N are the total energy of the bulk Pt unit cell and the number of Pt atoms in the bulk Pt unit cell, respectively.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 