I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


StructureActivitySelectivity Relationships in Propane Dehydrogenation over Rh/ZrO2 Catalysts
Abstract
A few years ago, we introduced alternative-type bulk ZrO2-based catalysts for nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Currently, they belong to the state of the art catalysts owing to their environmental compatibility, high activity, propene selectivity, and durability. However, the structureactivityselectivity relationships are still not appropriately understood. To close such gaps, we focused on elucidating the role of surface defects (coordinatively unsaturated Zr (Zrcus) sites) and supported Rh nanoparticles (NPs) in Rh/ZrO2 for activity and selectivity in the PDH reaction. Relevant physicochemical properties were analyzed by complementary experimental techniques, while details of catalyst functioning on an elementary-step level were derived from density functional theory calculations. Two types of Zrcus sites responsible for propane dehydrogenation were suggested to exist on the surface of ZrO2. Those located at Rh NPs reveal higher intrinsic activity owing to the positive effect of the metal on hydrogen desorption, which is the rate-limiting step in the PDH reaction over bare ZrO2. However, when the reduction degree of ZrO2 is increased, propene strongly adsorbs on Rh, resulting in blockage of sites for hydrogen recombination. Consequently, the accelerating effect of the metal is hindered. Moreover, the strong propene adsorption plays a negative role in propene selectivity due to favoring conversion of the adsorbed propene into coke. The most active Rh/ZrO2 catalyst revealed higher activity in comparison with the state of the art Ru/YZrOx and an analogue of commercial K-CrOx/Al2O3. It was also durable over 60 PDH/regeneration cycles at 550, 600, and 625 C lasting 11 days in total.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation Rh nanoparticles ZrO2 reducibility oxygen vacancy propene volcano-type curve
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Catalysts with supported metal(s) are widely used in various heterogeneous reactions, such as hydrocarbon dehydrogenation, re-forming reactions, CO oxidation, CO2 hydrogenation to CH4 or higher hydrocarbons, FischerTropsch synthesis, etc. (16) SiO2, Al2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, and CeO2 are typical supports, while catalytically active species are supported noble (e.g., Pt, Pd, Ru, and Rh), or non-noble (e.g., Fe, Co, Ni, and Zn) metals. Owing to the charge transfer between the metal and the support, their individual physicochemical and structural properties may change and the border area between these components can reveal unusual reactivity toward the feed components and reaction products. Thus, the interactions between the metal and the support have been thoroughly studied, as they play a key role in catalyst activity and selectivity. (711)
From the above considerations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to propene should be especially mentioned. This reaction is the basis of large-scale propene production using cheap propane from shale/natural gas. (12) Commercially applied catalysts are materials with supported Pt or CrOx active species. They, however, suffer from high costs or toxicity of the active components. The focus of the ongoing research in both academia and industry is the development of alternative materials free of such limitations. To ensure high activity, propene selectivity, on stream stability, and durability, researchers have tried to synthesize catalysts with a certain structure of supported catalytically active sites/species. (1318) However, there are often no straightforward methods to generate such specific structures where atoms would be arranged in a predetermined way. Moreover, even when such structures have been created, they have been found to alter under the severe reaction conditions (high temperature) required for the PDH reaction. Thus, approaches for the preparation of catalysts possessing catalytically active supported species have had limited success so far.
Recently, we experimentally validated a strategy for developing eco-friendly and cost-efficient bulk catalysts on the basis of ZrO2. (19,20) Surface defect sites but not supported structures were concluded to participate in propane dehydrogenation to propene. Owing to sophisticated catalyst characterization by complementary techniques combined with density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the nature of active sites in bare monoclinic or tetragonal ZrO2 was elucidated. Two neighboring coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations (Zrcus) located at an oxygen vacancy were suggested to form the active site. (1921) Their concentration was established to depend on the ability of ZrO2 to release its lattice oxygen. This catalyst property can be purposefully tuned through (i) the ZrO2 preparation method, (22) (ii) the nanostructure of ZrO2 crystallites and the kind of ZrO2 phase, (1921) (iii) doping of ZrO2 with La2O3, Y2O3, or Sm2O3, or (iv) the deposition of a metal (Cu, Ru or Rh) on the surface of ZrO2. (19,20,23) The last approach utilizes the ability of the metal to generate active hydrogen species on its surface followed by their spillover on ZrO2 and removal of lattice oxygen from this metal oxide upon its reductive treatment. From a fundamental viewpoint, however, it is not clear the extent to which hydrogen spillover affects the catalyst surface and if supported metals can also be involved (directly or indirectly) in propane activation and product formation in the PDH reaction. According to the recent DFT calculations on the effect of Rh on ZrO2 reducibility in a Rh/ZrO2 model system, (24) there exists a kind of enhanced zone within about 4 Å around Rh species supported on ZrO2. Thus, the reactivity of lattice oxygen located at the boundary area between the supported metal and the oxide is largely enhanced and it can easily be removed. (7)
The main purpose of the present study was to understand the role of Rh in Rh/ZrO2 (monoclinic ZrO2) for the PDH reaction at a molecular level. Does Rh simply promote creation of anion vacancies, i.e. Zrcus sites, or does it also influence the intrinsic activity of the latter sites for propane dehydrogenation? Does Rh affect product selectivity, and if so, how? Thus, we analyzed the effects of Rh on ZrO2 reduction degree as well as on catalyst activity and propene selectivity. To establish activityselectivityproperty relationships, thorough mechanistic and kinetic tests were complemented by detailed catalyst characterization by means of multiple state of the art characterization techniques. Furthermore, DFT calculations were carried out to elucidate the effects of Rh and the reduction degree of ZrO2 on individual reaction pathways at a molecular level.
Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Catalyst Preparation
To exclude any size effect on the interactions studied, we initially prepared Rh nanoparticles with a uniform size of 1 nm as follows. RhCl3·xH2O (40 wt % Rh, Alfa Aesar), NaOH (99%, Merck), ethylene glycol (99%, Roth), acetone (99.98%, Fisher Chemical), toluene (99.98%, Fisher Chemical), and methanol (99.99%, Fisher Chemical) were used as the initial materials. The synthetic procedure is similar to that described in ref (25). Briefly, 0.4 g of NaOH was dissolved in 20 mL of ethylene glycol to get a NaOH solution with a concentration of 0.02 g mL1 (solution A). A 0.2058 g portion of RhCl3·xH2O was dissolved in 20 mL of ethylene glycol to obtain solution B. Then, solution A was added dropwise to solution B in a three-neck bottle under Ar. The resulting mixture was heated to 160 C under an Ar flow and maintained at this temperature for 3 h. Thereafter, the mixture was cooled to room temperature under the same atmosphere. The resulting dark solution contained Rh nanoparticles with a metal concentration of 0.02 mol L1.
To synthesize Rh/ZrO2 catalysts with different Rh loadings, monoclinic ZrO2 (provided by Saint-Gobain) was impregnated with a solution of Rh NPs according to the procedure below. The first step was the removal of an excess of ethylene glycol from the Rh NP solution. To this end, 2 mL of acetone was mixed with a required volume of the solution for 10 s. Thereafter, this new solution was thoroughly mixed with 10 mL of toluene until a phase separation occurred. The bottom phase containing Rh NPs was collected. The above process was repeated with the latter phase several times until the ethylene glycol was completely extracted. Thereafter, 30 mL of methanol was added to the purified Rh NPs. The obtained solution was added to a suspension of ZrO2 (2 g) in 10 mL of methanol with continuous stirring until Rh NPs were deposited. In order to collect the remaining Rh NPs, another 10 mL of methanol was used to wash the glass containing Rh NPs and then added to the above suspension. This suspension was stirred at room temperature overnight. Thereafter, the solid was separated by centrifuging and dried at 60 C. The catalysts are denoted as 0.01Rh/ZrO2, 0.025Rh/ZrO2, 0.05Rh/ZrO2, 0.1Rh/ZrO2, and 0.2Rh/ZrO2. The numbers stand for the theoretical weight percentage concentration of Rh in these materials.
For comparative purposes, differently loaded Rh/SiO2 catalysts were prepared by a method similar to that used for the preparation of Rh/ZrO2. SiO2 provided by Sigma-Aldrich was used for their preparation. Bare monoclinic ZrO2 catalysts with different sizes of crystallites were from our previous work. (20)
General Catalyst Characterization
X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis was performed on a Panalytical XPert diffractometer equipped with an Xcelerator detector, automatic divergence slits, and Cu tube (Kα1/α2 radiation, 40 kV, 40 mA, λ = 0.15406 nm, 0.154443 nm). Cu β-radiation was excluded by using a nickel filter foil.
The size of the Rh NPs in ethylene glycol solution was measured by SAXS using a Kratky-type instrument (SAXSess, Anton Paar, Austria) operated at 40 kV and 50 mA in slit collimation with a two-dimensional CCD detector.
Rh loading in the catalysts was experimentally determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES, Varian 715-ES).
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was applied for analyzing near-surface composition and the state of near-surface Zr4+. The measurements were performed on an ESCALAB 220iXL (Thermo Fisher Scientific) instrument with monochromated Al Kα radiation (E = 1486.6 eV). Samples were transferred in air and prepared on a stainless-steel holder with conductive double-sided adhesive carbon tape. No further pretreatment was used before measurements. The electron binding energies were obtained with charge compensation using a flood electron source and referenced to the C 1s core level of adventitious carbon at 284.8 eV (CC and CH bonds). For quantitative analysis the peaks were deconvoluted with GaussianLorentzian curves using the software Unifit 2020. The peak areas were normalized by the transmission function of the spectrometer and the element specific sensitivity factor of Scofield. (26)
Temperature-Programmed Methods
Temperature-programmed desorption experiments with CO (CO-TPD), NH3 (NH3-TPD), or C3H6 (C3H6-TPD) were carried out in a setup developed in-house containing eight individually heated continuous-flow fixed-bed quartz reactors. The catalysts (0.050.2 g) were initially calcined in an air flow at 550 C for 1 h, purged with Ar for 15 min, and then treated in a flow of 57 vol % H2 in Ar for 1 h. Thereafter, the catalysts were cooled under flowing Ar to 250 C (for CO-TPD), to 120 C (for NH3-TPD), or to 50 C (for C3H6-TPD). Then the catalysts were exposed to a flow of CO (1 vol % CO in Ar, 10 mL min1), NH3 (1 vol % NH3 in Ar, 14 mL min1), or C3H6 (5 vol % C3H6 in Ar, 6 mL min1) for 1 h. After this step, the catalysts were cooled in an Ar flow to room temperature (for CO-TPD), to 80 C (for NH3-TPD), or to 50 C (for C3H6-TPD). Before NH3-TPD was started, the catalysts were purged in an Ar flow at 80 C for 2 h to remove weakly adsorbed NH3. Thereafter, they were heated to 900 C with a heating rate of 10 K min1 in an Ar flow (10 mL min1). The catalysts for C3H6-TPD were purged in an Ar flow at 50 C for 12 h to remove weakly adsorbed C3H6 and finally heated to 900 C with a heating rate of 10 K min1. Desorbed CO, NH3, and C3H6 were recorded by an online mass spectrometer (Pfeiffer Vacuum OmniStar GSD 320) at the atomic mass units (AMUs) of 28 (CO), 15 (NH), and 41 (C3H5), respectively. Ar (AMU of 40) was used as internal standard.
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) experiments were carried out in the setup described above using a feed with 5 vol % H2 or 1 vol % CO in Ar. The catalysts (0.2 g) were first calcined in an air flow at 550 C for 1 h and then cooled in the same flow to room temperature. Thereafter, they were heated in a flow (10 mL min1) of 5 vol % H2 or 1 vol % CO in Ar to 900 C with a heating rate of 10 K min1. The consumption of H2 or CO was detected by an online mass spectrometer (Pfeiffer Vacuum OmniStar GSD 320). AMUs of 2, 28, and 40 were recorded for monitoring H2, CO, and Ar, respectively.
Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) experiments were carried out in the same setup used for the TPD and TPR experiments. Each spent catalyst was heated from room temperature to 900 C (10 K min1) in a flow of 5 vol % O2 in Ar (10 mL min1). The spent catalysts were prepared after treatment in a flow of 5 vol % C3H6 in Ar for 1 h at 550 C. CO, CO2, and Ar signals with AMUs of 28, 44, and 40 were detected by an online mass spectrometer (Pfeiffer Vacuum OmniStar GSD 320).
Temporal Analysis of Products
H/D exchange experiments were performed in a temporal analysis of products (TAP-2) reactor, which is a pulse technique with a time resolution of approximately 100 μs. (27,28) A fresh catalyst sample (30 mg) was packed between two layers of quartz particles (fraction of 250450 μm) in an isothermal zone of a homemade quartz reactor (inner diameter, 6 mm; length, 40 mm). Prior to the H/D exchange experiments, each catalyst was pretreated as follows. It was first heated to 550 C in an N2 flow (10 mL min1), and then oxidized in a mixture of O2 (2 mL min1) and N2 (8 mL min1) for 1 h. Thereafter, the reactor was flushed in an N2 flow (10 mL min1) for 15 min, reduced in a flow (10 mL min1) of 57 vol % H2 in N2 for 1 h, and flushed again in an N2 flow (10 mL min1) for 15 min. Then the reactor was evacuated to ca. 105 Pa.
Finally, a 1/1/1 mixture of H2/D2/Ar was pulsed into the reactor at 550 C. H2 (5.0, Air Liquide), D2 (N2.8, CK Special Gases Limited), and Ar (5.0 Linde Gas) were used for preparing the reaction mixture without additional purification. The total pulse size was between 5 × 1014 and 1 × 1015 molecules. Due to the small number of pulsed molecules, gas-phase collisions were suppressed (Knudsen diffusion regime), so that purely heterogeneous reaction steps were analyzed. The feed components and reaction products were quantitatively analyzed by an online quadrupole mass spectrometer (HAL RC 301, Hiden Analytics). The following AMUs were used for mass spectrometric analysis: 4 (D2), 3 (HD), 2 (H2), and 40 (Ar). For each AMU, the pulses were repeated 10 times and averaged to improve the signal to noise ratio. The fraction of formed HD was calculated from the areas of signals recorded at the respective AMUs.
Catalytic Tests
Catalyst performance in the PDH reaction was determined in a setup developed in-house containing 15 continuous-flow fixed-bed quartz reactors at 1 bar. The rate of propene formation was determined at a degree of propane conversion below 10%. Each reactor was filled with 50 mg of the catalyst (fraction 315710 μm). Thereafter, the catalysts were heated in an N2 flow up to 550 C and calcined in an air flow at the same temperature for 1 h. Then, they were purged with N2 for 15 min, treated in a flow of 57 vol % H2 (or 57 vol % CO) in N2 for 1 h, and purged again with N2 for 15 min. Thereafter, the catalysts were exposed to a flow of 40 vol % C3H8 in N2 (2040 mL min1 in total). Gas chromatographic data recorded after 190 s on stream were used to calculate the initial rate of propene formation.
To determine the dependence of product selectivity on propane conversion, we performed catalytic tests at 550 C with the catalysts reduced in a flow of H2 (57 vol % H2 in N2). The catalyst amount was set to 0.3 g, while the total flow (660 mL min1) was varied to get different contact times and accordingly different degrees of propane conversion.
The durability of 0.05Rh/ZrO2 was demonstrated in a series of 60 PDH/regeneration cycles performed at 550, 600, and 625 C using a total flow (10, 40, and 60 mL min1 respectively) of 40 vol % C3H8 in N2. The catalyst amount was set to 0.3 g. Prior to the first PDH stage, the catalyst was heated in a flow of N2 up to 550 C and calcined in air at 550 C for 1 h. The PDH stage lasted 38 min, while catalyst regeneration was performed at the same temperature in an air flow and lasted 15 min. The PDH and regeneration stages were always separated by a purging step in an N2 flow for 15 min.
The feed components and the reaction products were analyzed by an online gas chromatograph (Agilent 6890) equipped with PLOT/Q (for CO2), AL/S (for hydrocarbons), and Molsieve 5 (for H2, O2, N2, and CO) columns as well as flame ionization and thermal conductivity detectors.
Equations 16 were used to calculate the initial rate of propene formation (r(C3H6) expressed as mmol of C3H6 gcat1 min1), propane conversion (X(C3H8)), selectivity to gas-phase products (Si) and coke (S(coke)), propene yield (Y(C3H6)), and spacetime yield of propene formation (STY(C3H6)), respectively. The turnover frequency (TOF) values of propene formation with respect to one Rh surface atom or one Zrcus site were calculated according to eq 7. The number of surface Rh atoms was estimated according to our previous study using Ru/Al2O3 catalysts with supported well-defined (1.1, 2.5, 2.9, 3.7, and 5.5 nm) Rh nanoparticles. (29) The number of Zrcus sites was assumed to be equal to the number of desorbed CO upon CO-TPD tests (Table 1).
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Table 1. Rh Loading, Total Amounts of NH3 (n(NH3)) and CO (n(CO)) Desorbed in NH3- and CO-TPD Tests, Temperature of Maximum H2 Consumption (Tmax(H2)), Total Amount of H2 (n(H2)) Consumed, and the Degree of Removal of Surface Oxygen (x(O)) Calculated from H2-TPR Tests According to eq 8
sample Rh loading/wt %a n(NH3)/μmol m2 Tmax(H2)/C n(H2)/μmol g1 x(O)/% n(CO)/μmol m2
ZrO2 0 1.84 625 5.80 0.35 0.53
0.01Rh/ZrO2 0.01a 1.41 364 33.62 2.04 0.45
0.025Rh/ZrO2 0.025a 1.06 350 52.52 3.18 0.62
0.05Rh/ZrO2 0.045b 1.03 327 64.42 3.91 0.56
0.1Rh/ZrO2 0.094b 0.97 307 125.50 7.61 0.71
0.2Rh/ZrO2 0.12b 0.54 296 160.26 9.71 0.49
aSuperscripts a and b stand for nominal and experimentally determined Rh loading, respectively.
In the equations above, Ffeed is a volumetric feed flow rate (mL h1), x(C3H6) is a molar fraction of propene, Vm is the molar volume (22400 mL mol1), mcat is the catalyst amount (g), STY(C3H6) is the spacetime yield of C3H6 (kg of C3H6 h1 m3),  with the superscripts in and out is the molar flow of gas-phase components (indicated with the subscripts i, C3H8, and N2) at the reactor inlet and outlet respectively (mol min1), νi is the number of carbon atoms in product i or C3H8, ρ is the density of the catalyst (kg m3), M(C3H6) is the molar weight of C3H6 (42.08 g mol1), S(BET) is the specific surface area of the catalyst (m2 g1), and SD is the surface density of active sites (μmol m2), which are Rh atoms or Zrcus sites for differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 catalysts.
DFT Method and Surface Models
Spin-polarized and periodic DFT calculations were carried out using the Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP). (30,31) Exchange and correlation were treated within the PerdewBurkeErnzerhof generalized gradient approximation (GGA-PBE). (32) To obtain accurate energies with errors of less than 1 meV per atom, a cutoff energy of 400 eV was used. Geometry optimization was converged with forces acting on atoms lower than 0.02 eV/Å, whereas the energy threshold defining the self-consistency of electron density was set to 104 eV. A normal-mode frequency analysis was performed to validate the optimized transition states, and each authentic transition state has only one imaginary frequency along the reaction coordinates. Zero-point vibrational energies (ZPE) from the frequency analysis are included in our energetic data for a discussion about the desorption of H2 and C3H6, where the slab with nine layers was fixed and the surface-adsorbed productions (partial Hessian) were relaxed.
Since XRD analysis (Figure S1) proved that Rh/ZrO2 catalysts are composed of the monoclinic ZrO2 (m-ZrO2) phase, we constructed our ZrO2 models based on this phase. In our previous work, (21) the most stable surface m-ZrO2(111) termination with OZrO was modeled by a p(2 × 2) nine-atomic-layer supercell with the bottom three layers being fixed and the top six layers being relaxed. (3335) The lateral supercell containing a vacuum space of 15 Å between the slab and its periodic images was used. The Brillouin zone was sampled with a 2 × 2 × 1 MonkhorstPack mesh. The desorption energy is defined as Edes = E(free slab) + E(X)  E(X+slab), where E(X+slab) represents the total energy of the slab with adsorbate (C3H6 or H2) in its equilibrium geometry, E(free slab) is the total energy of the optimized slab, and E(X) is the total energy of the free adsorbate (C3H6 or H2) in the gas phase. Therefore, the more positive the desorption energy, the stronger the adsorption of C3H6 or H2. The cohesive energy per Rh atom was defined as Ecoh = (ERhx/slab  Eslab  xERh)/x. Here, Eslab, ERh, and ERhx/slab are the electronic energies of the bare m-ZrO2(111) surface, an isolated Rh atom, and an individual Rhx/ZrO2 model, respectively. The reducibility of Rhx/ZrO2 was evaluated using H2 as a reducing agent for the removal of lattice oxygen from ZrO2 to yield an anion vacancy (Ov). The energy required for this process (Er(Ov)) is defined with respect to a gas-phase H2O molecule according to the equation Er(Ov) = Ed + EH2O  Es  EH2, where Es is the energy of Rhx/m-ZrO2(111), Ed is the energy of the surface with Ov, and EH2 and EH2O correspond to the energies of the gas-phase H2 and H2O, respectively. The formation energy of more than one Ov, i.e. N vacancies, was calculated using Rhx/ZrO2(111) with N  1 vacancies. The following formula was used to calculate the formation energy of N oxygen vacancies Ef(Ov) = Ed(surface with N vacancies) + 1/2EO2  Ed(surface with N  1 vacancies). The oxygen vacancy formation energy is also a measure for the reducibility of the oxide. The higher the (positive) value, the lower the reducibility.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Bulk and Surface Properties
The prepared Rh/ZrO2 catalysts were characterized by XRD to determine the phase composition of the support. Regardless of Rh loading, the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 is present in all of the samples (Figure S1). ZrO2 and 0.05Rh/ZrO2 catalysts after 16 min on propane stream at 550 C (initial X(C3H8) was 5% and 10%, respectively) were also characterized by XRD. Both the phase composition and the size of ZrO2 crystallites were retained (Figure S2). No diffractions characteristic of Rh could be detected. An average diameter of Rh NPs in the mother ethylene glycol solution was determined by SAXS and was about 1 nm (Figure S3). As proven in our previous study, the NPs did not significantly change in size after deposition on Al2O3 and after about 200 h on stream in partial oxidation of methane at 800 C. (25,29)
The actual loading of Rh in the Rh/ZrO2 catalysts was determined by ICP and is given in Table 1. The loading in 0.01Rh/ZrO2 and 0.025Rh/ZrO2 catalysts was close to the detection limit of our ICP equipment, and thus it was impossible to precisely determine the concentration of Rh in these two samples. However, as the theoretical and experimentally determined concentrations of Rh in more highly loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples were close to each other, we assume that this is also the case for 0.01Rh/ZrO2 and 0.025Rh/ZrO2. The specific surface area of the catalysts did not depend on Rh loading and was about 88 m2 g1, which was also determined for the bare ZrO2 support.
Since XPS is a powerful technique to characterize chemical composition and particularly electronic states of elements on the surface of catalysts, (36) we applied this technique to check if there is any interplay between Rh and ZrO2. Due to the low loading of Rh, the corresponding XPS signal was very weak and thus it was not possible to characterize the state of this metal. Nevertheless, we proved that Rh influenced the electronic properties of Zr4+. The XP spectra of Zr 3d of selected catalysts are shown in Figure 1. The binding energies at 182.1 and 184.5 eV in the spectrum of bare ZrO2 can be ascribed to Zr 3d5/2 and Zr 3d3/2, respectively, in the oxidation state 4+. (37,38) In comparison with this reference sample, the respective values in Rh/ZrO2 are shifted to lower binding energies with an increase in Rh loading. Such a shift indicates that the presence of Rh increases the electron density of Zr4+. This effect can be due to the fact that electrons remain in the oxygen vacancy surrounded by zirconium cations after removal of lattice oxygen from the lattice of ZrO2. (24) According to our recent DFT calculations with bare ZrO2, (21) a part of the electron density is transferred to the neighboring Zr4+ sites. A similar effect of Rh on the energy of Zr4+ was previously observed for a thin film of tetragonal ZrO2 with supported Rh species. (39) The observed additional broadening of the signal is mainly attributed to differential charging effects. The survey spectra and the quantification table for all four samples can be found in the Figure S4 and Table S1, respectively, in the Supporting Information.
Figure 1
Figure 1. XP spectra of Zr4+ in ZrO2, 0.01Rh/ZrO2, 0.05Rh/ZrO2, and 0.2Rh/ZrO2.
Effect of Rh on Redox Properties of ZrO2
The ability of the Rh/ZrO2 catalysts to release lattice oxygen under reducing conditions was investigated by H2-TPR. Molecular details about this process were derived from DFT calculations. First, we discuss the experimental data. The obtained H2-TPR profiles are shown in Figure 2. They are characterized by a broad peak of H2 consumption. It is worth mentioning that the temperature of maximum H2 consumption (Tmax(H2)) shifted to lower values and the amount of H2 consumed increased as the Rh loading increased. Such a phenomenon could be explained by the promoting effect of the noble metal on ZrO2 reducibility, as suggested by the authors of ref (24), where DFT calculations were used to analyze the above phenomenon. It is well-known that Rh can activate and dissociate molecular H2. The following spillover of H atoms onto the surface of ZrO2 and their subsequent reaction with lattice oxygen lead to the removal of lattice oxygen from ZrO2 in the form of H2O.
Figure 2
Figure 2. H2-TPR profiles of bare ZrO2 and differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples.
The discussion below supports our conclusion about the role of Rh in improving the ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon H2 treatment. For comparative purposes, we carried out H2-TPR of 0.2Rh/SiO2 possessing the same Rh NPs as Rh/ZrO2. When the H2-TPR profiles of 0.2Rh/ZrO2 and 0.2Rh/SiO2 were compared (Figure S5a), a large H2 consumption peak could be identified for 0.2Rh/ZrO2, while practically no consumption was detected for 0.2Rh/SiO2. Furthermore, the H2/Rh ratio calculated from the amount of H2 consumption in H2-TPR of differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples and the total Rh loading is between 13 and 34 (Figure S5b). These values are significantly larger than 1.5 if Rh2O3 exclusively consumed H2. These results enable us to safely conclude that H2 consumption in H2-TPR tests with Rh/ZrO2 catalysts is mainly due to removal of lattice oxygen from ZrO2.
To derive deeper fundamental insights into the promoting effect of Rh on the ability of ZrO2 to release its lattice oxygen, we applied DFT calculations. To this end, we initially constructed three models for Rh/ZrO2 differing in the number of Rh atoms. They are denoted Rh1/ZrO2, Rh4/ZrO2, and Rh10/ZrO2 (Figure S6), with the numbers standing for the number of Rh atoms. The cohesive energies are given in Table S2. For the Rh1/ZrO2 model, one Rh atom preferentially adsorbs on an O hollow site (containing two O2 anions and Zr4+ cation) on the ZrO2(111) surface (Figure S6a) with a cohesive energy of 3.17 eV. Such a negative energy value indicates strong interaction between the metal and the oxide. For the Rh4/ZrO2 model, the cohesive energy of the tetrahedral Rh4 cluster is stronger by 0.25 eV (3.92 vs 3.67 eV) than that of its planar counterpart. This change indicates that RhRh bonding is stronger than the interaction between Rh and the support (Figure S6bd). This conclusion is further supported when the data for the Rh10/ZrO2 model are considered (see Figure S6e,f for the molecular structures). As seen in Table S2, the cohesive energy further decreased to 4.40 eV with an increase in the size of Rh cluster up to 10 Rh atoms. It can also be seen that the shapes of all the clusters and the cohesive energies did not significantly change upon cluster deposition on the ZrO2(111) surface (Figure S6 and Table S2). Nevertheless, the Rh10 cluster can be considered as a two-layer model, with the bottom and the top layers possessing seven and three Rh atoms, respectively. The average RhRh distance in the bottom layer, which is interfaced with the ZrO2(111) surface, shortens from 2.71 (Rh bulk) to 2.62 Å upon cluster adsorption (Figure S6e,f).
We also calculated the most stable structures of Rhn/ZrO2 with different numbers of anion vacancies (Ov) and the corresponding formation energies. The configurations obtained are shown in Figure S7. For the most stable structure of Rh1/ZrO2 with one Ov (denoted as 1Ov-Rh1/ZrO2 and the Rh atom occupies the vacancy), the energy required for Ov formation upon removal of lattice oxygen by H2 is significantly lowered in comparison with that for the clean ZrO2 surface: i.e., 0.85 vs 3.17 eV (Table S3). The positive effect of Rh was also obtained for the Rh4/ZrO2 and Rh10/ZrO2 models, with the corresponding energies being 0.16 and 0.43 eV (Table S3). Importantly, regardless of the model applied, the first anion vacancy is formed upon removal of lattice oxygen located at Rh species, as concluded from the results shown in Figure S7. It shows all possible structures with different numbers of Ov (16). The computation details are given in DFT Method and Surface Models.
To further analyze the effect of Rh on the ability of ZrO2 to release its lattice oxygen, we systematically elucidated this process for Rh/ZrO2 with different numbers of oxygen vacancies in ZrO2. The calculated energies and the structures are shown in Figure S8. The most energetically favorable structures are presented in Figure S7. Regardless of the number of Rh atoms on the ZrO2(111) surface, this metal also promotes the formation of multiple Ov centers, as seen from the corresponding energies shown in Table S3. For the Rh1/ZrO2 model, the energies required for the formation of the second and third Ov are 1.45 and 3.14 eV, respectively, with the latter value being close to the 3.17 eV needed to form the first Ov on the surface of bare ZrO2. For the Rh4/ZrO2 and Rh10/ZrO2 models, the energies of the second Ov formation are 0.90 and 1.07 eV, respectively (Table S3), with these values being lower than 1.45 eV for the Rh1/ZrO2 model. A similar trend is also established for the formation of the third Ov. Importantly, the corresponding values of 1.33 and 1.21 eV for Rh4/ZrO2 and Rh10/ZrO2 are significantly lower than the energy required to form the first Ov in bare ZrO2. Similarly, the formation of the fourth, fifth, and sixth Ov is also more efficient in the presence of Rh; the corresponding energy formation values for Rh10/ZrO2 were calculated to be 1.38, 2.00, and 2.04 eV, respectively.
Thus, our DFT calculations predict that supported Rh species promote formation of multiple Ov in ZrO2. This result is in accordance with our experimental H2-TPR data (Figure 2 and Table 1). The calculations additionally suggest that the vacancies are located near Rh NPs. It is also worth repeating that the energy required for the formation of Ov increases with an increase in the degree of Ov coverage.
Role of Rh in Product Selectivity
We shall start our discussion of catalytic data with the effect of Rh loading on product selectivity. To this end, we determined the selectivityconversion relationships at 550 C for bare ZrO2 and differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 catalysts. The obtained results are summarized in Figure 3. For all of the catalysts, the selectivity to propene decreased with increasing propane conversion. The dependences of the selectivity to coke and cracking products (C1C2 hydrocarbons) revealed an opposite trend. On the basis of these results, one can conclude that propene primarily formed from propane is further converted into coke and cracking products. Coke can additionally be formed from propane. This statement is supported by the fact that nonzero coke selectivity will be obtained at a near-zero degree of propane conversion. This reaction step, however, plays a minor role.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Selectivityconversion relationships for (a) propene, (b) coke, and (c) C1C2 hydrocarbons over bare ZrO2 and Rh/ZrO2 with different Rh loadings.
From the results in Figure 3, one can also conclude that (i) the decrease in propene selectivity with increasing propane conversion becomes stronger with increasing Rh loading and (ii) the selectivity to propene at a certain close degree of propane conversion decreases with the loading. An opposite trend is valid for the selectivity to coke, while the catalysts apart from 0.1Rh/ZrO2 do not significantly differ in the selectivity to C1C2 hydrocarbons. As catalyst acidity is often considered to affect coke selectivity in the PDH reaction, (40,41) we also tried to establish such a correlation. In contrast to the literature-based expectations, a decrease in the selectivity to coke with an increase in the acidity determined from NH3-TPD tests was established (Figure S9). Thus, catalyst acidic properties do not seem to be directly relevant to coke formation.
In order to understand why the selectivity to propene and coke is affected by Rh loading, we prepared Rh/SiO2 catalysts possessing the same Rh NPs as in the Rh/ZrO2 catalysts and tested them for C3H6 adsorption. The latter catalyst property should be decisive for coke formation, as propene is the main source of coke species. The higher the amount of adsorbed propene species, the higher the probability for their interaction with each other to yield coke species. The catalysts were pretreated in a flow of 5 vol % C3H6 in Ar (6 mL min1) at 550 C for 1 h followed by TPO tests. Three peaks of CO2 formation in different temperature ranges were determined for Rh/SiO2 catalysts, but no CO2 was detected upon reoxidation of bare SiO2 (Figure 4a). The formation of CO2 proves the presence of carbon-containing species on the surface of Rh/SiO2. In addition, the amount of CO2 formed per gram of catalyst increased with Rh loading (Figure 4b). Taking this dependence and the absence of CO2 in TPO of SiO2 into account, we can safely conclude that Rh is responsible for propene adsorption.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Evolution profiles of CO2 and (b) the corresponding amounts of CO2 determined upon TPO of Rh/SiO2 treated in a flow of C3H6 (5 vol % C3H6 in Ar) at 550 C for 1 h. (c) C3H6 concentration in C3H6-TPD tests with differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples.
We also performed C3H6-TPD tests over bare ZrO2 and selected Rh/ZrO2 catalysts. The results are shown in Figure 4c. The C3H6-TPD profiles of 0.05Rh/ZrO2 and 0.2Rh/ZrO2 are characterized by two desorption peaks at 140 and 380 C. However, only one C3H6 desorption peak centered at 140 C could be found for the bare ZrO2 catalyst. Moreover, the intensity of the high-temperature peak of C3H6 desorption increased with Rh loading. This means that C3H6 adsorbs more strongly on Rh NPs than over bare ZrO2. This is in agreement with previous studies claiming strong olefin adsorption on supported metal-containing catalysts. (14,42) Thus, we can safely conclude that Rh NPs promote propene adsorption. Adsorbed propene species can undergo further transformations to yield coke species.
Catalyst Activity
To elucidate the effect of Rh loading on catalyst activity, we determined the rate of propene formation at 550 C. This catalyst property as a function of Rh loading is shown in Figure 5a. It is important to emphasize that the activity of most of our samples was higher than that of a commercial-like K-CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst (the activity of K-CrOx/Al2O3 is shown with a gray dashed line in Figure 5a). Moreover, they outperformed the state of the art Ru/YZrOx from our previous study (1.34 vs 1.07 mmol g1 min1). (23) It is worth mentioning that Rh/SiO2 catalysts showed very low activity in comparison with their ZrO2-based counterparts (Figure 5a). Thus, Rh is not the main active site in the PDH reaction over the Rh/ZrO2 catalysts.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Rate of propene formation (r(C3H6)) versus (a) Rh loading of Rh/ZrO2 (black ) and Rh/SiO2 (black ) catalysts and (b) fraction of lattice oxygen removed from differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples or differently prepared bare ZrO2. The dashed gray line in (a) represents the activity of a commercial-like K-CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. The fraction in (b) was calculated according to eq 8 from H2-TPR (black ) or CO-TPR (gray , white ) tests. The arrows show how the activity of 0.05Rh/ZrO2 (black , gray ) and ZrO2 (black , white ) changes when the catalysts were reduced in H2 or CO.
The most active 0.05Rh/ZrO2 catalyst from the present study was also tested in a series of 60 PDH/oxidative regeneration (air flow) cycles at 550, 600, and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. These cycles, including purge stages with N2 between the feeds containing C3H8 and O2, lasted for about 11 days. Figure S10 shows the selectivity to propene and the maximum spacetime yield (STY) of propene formation obtained over the 0.05Rh/ZrO2 and K-CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts in each PDH cycle, while on-stream profiles of propane conversion, propene selectivity, and STY in the first 20 PDH cycles at 550 C are given in Figure S11. Both catalysts deactivate with time on stream due to coke formation. Their initial activity is recovered after oxidative catalyst treatment. Thus, our catalyst reveals high durability (recovering its initial activity after oxidative regeneration) and did not significantly differ from K-CrOx/Al2O3 in the above performance.
Another important conclusion from Figure 5a to be especially mentioned is the volcanic-type dependence of the rate of propene formation on Rh loading. The highest rate was achieved over the Rh/ZrO2 catalyst with a Rh loading of about 0.045 wt %. Such an effect of Rh loading on the rate of propene formation implies that Rh is not the main active species participating in propene formation. This statement is supported by the fact that the TOF of propene formation with respect to one surface Rh atom decreases with Rh loading (Figure S12b). If this metal determined the activity, the TOF values would not depend on the loading.
On the basis of our previous studies with differently prepared bare ZrO2 materials, (20,22) we also tried to establish a relationship between the amount of lattice oxygen removed from differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples and differently prepared monoclinic bare ZrO2 samples and the rate of propene formation. To this end, we used eq 8 to calculate the fraction of removed lattice oxygen x(O) from H2-TPR or CO-TPR tests. This value represents the overall fraction of coordinatively unsaturated zirconium cations.
Importantly, the rate of propene formation over Rh/ZrO2 passed through a maximum with rising x(O) (Figure 5b). A maximum was also established for the rateRh loading dependence (Figure 5a). One may assume that there is an optimal reduction degree of ZrO2, exceeding which the activity will drop. This is also supported by the fact that the rate of 0.05Rh/ZrO2 decreased when the fraction of removed lattice oxygen increased (see the gray circle in Figure 5b) through catalyst reduction in CO before starting the PDH reaction.
(8)
In eq 8, d is the oxygen density on the (111) facet of monoclinic ZrO2; the value is 11.24 nm2 as obtained from DFT calculations. n(H2) and NA stand for the amount (μmol g1) of H2 consumed in H2-TPR tests and Avogadros number, respectively. The values 106 and 1018 are used to convert from μmol to mol and from m2 to nm2, respectively.
In contrast to the Rh/ZrO2 catalysts, the rate of propene formation over bare ZrO2 samples did not pass over a maximum but increased with an increasing fraction of removed oxygen, as seen in Figure 5b. Moreover, ZrO2 reduced in CO released a higher amount of lattice oxygen in comparison to all Rh/ZrO2 samples but revealed the highest activity among all of the catalysts studied. In addition, the rate of propene formation over bare ZrO2 increased with (i) the duration of catalyst treatment in H2 at 550 C before the PDH reaction or (ii) an increase in treatment temperature (Figure S13a,b). These results directly support our previous conclusion about the decisive role of Zrcus sites for propane dehydrogenation. In contrast to bare ZrO2, the activity of 0.05Rh/ZrO2 decreased with an increase in treatment temperature. Thus, the degree of removal of lattice oxygen from ZrO2 improves the activity of bare ZrO2 but hinders that of Rh/ZrO2.
Another important difference between Rh/ZrO2 and bare ZrO2 is the higher activity of the Rh-containing samples on comparison of the catalysts with a similar degree (up to 8%) of removed surface lattice oxygen. Thus, Rh should have a positive effect on catalyst activity in addition to promoting oxygen removal. To get experimental support for this assumption, we performed CO-TPD tests to titrate Zrcus sites. It is known that CO adsorbs on such sites. (20,43) The amount of desorbed CO is reported in Table 1, while the corresponding CO-TPD profiles are presented in Figure S14a. Importantly, no CO was detected in CO-TPD tests with Rh/SiO2 possessing the same Rh NPs as Rh/ZrO2 (Figure S14b). This is probably due to the low amount of Rh. CO desorbed from Rh should be below the detection limit of the mass spectrometer. Thus, we can conclude that CO detected in our CO-TPD tests with Rh/ZrO2 samples should be mainly related to ZrO2 and not to Rh. Using the amount of CO determined from CO-TPD tests (Table 1 and Figure S15), we used eq 7 to calculate the CO-related TOF of propene formation over differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples and differently prepared monoclinic bare ZrO2 samples. The latter catalysts are from our previous study. (20) The obtained TOF values are shown in Figure 6. The CO-related TOF values of propane conversion over the same catalysts (Figure 6). The TOF values for propane conversion (Figure S12a) are very similar to those of propene formation because of high propene selectivity (above 90%). On the basis of the results shown in Figure 6 and Figure S12a, two groups of materials can be identified. For all of the tested bare ZrO2 catalysts, the TOF values are similar but about 4 times lower than those for differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples. The TOF values for the latter materials are also close to each other. Thus, Rh seems to improve the intrinsic activity of Zrcus sites. However, why does the rate of propene formation pass over a maximum when the Rh loading increases? To answer this question and to get a molecular-level insight into the positive effect of Rh, we carried out DFT calculations and H/D exchange experiments. The obtained results are presented and discussed in the sections below.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Turnover frequency (TOF) of propene formation (eq 7) over differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 (red ) and bare monoclinic ZrO2 (white ) with respect to the amount of CO determined from CO-TPD tests. The bare ZrO2 catalysts with different sizes of crystallites are from our previous study. (20) The numbers in circles are explained in the corresponding Supporting Information. Rh loading in Rh/ZrO2 increases from the left to the right and is given in Table 1.
Rh Effect on Hydrogen Activation
As Rh is not the main active site for the PDH reaction over Rh/ZrO2 (Figure 5a and Figure S13b), we hypothesize that its positive effect on the rate of propene formation (Figure 5b) and the TOF value of propene formation (Figure 6) is due to facilitating H2 desorption. Our previous results (20,21) showed that the active site for PDH over bare ZrO2 is two Zrcus located at Ov. The rate-determining step was concluded to be H2 formation. It is also known that H2 dissociative adsorption on transition metals has a low energy barrier. (4446) Thus, Rh-stimulated H2 desorption over Rh/ZrO2 may become easier in comparison with H2 desorption over bare ZrO2. To check if Rh affects dissociative H2 adsorption, we investigated H/D exchange in the TAP reactor. To this end, a 1/1/1 H2/D2/Ar mixture was pulsed over reduced catalysts at 550 C: i.e., the temperature of PDH tests. One can see in Figure 7ae that the response of HD appears after the response of D2 (the response of H2 is omitted for brevity). This means that HD was formed through an exchange reaction between H2 and D2. Thus, the fraction of gas-phase HD formed in these tests serves as a measure of catalyst ability for breaking HH and DD bonds as well as for making new HD bonds and finally for HD desorption. As seen in Figure 7, HD exchange takes place over bare ZrO2: i.e., over Zrcus sites. Deposition of Rh on the surface of ZrO2 led to an increase in the fraction of formed HD (Figure 7f). Increasing the Rh loading resulted in a further enhancement in the catalytic activity of Rh/ZrO2 for the HD exchange. Since HD was also formed over 0.05Rh/SiO2, it can be assumed that metallic Rh sites catalyze H/D exchange.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (ae) Normalized responses of Ar, HD and D2 obtained after pulsing of 1/1/1 H2/D2/Ar at 550 C. The catalysts were prereduced at the same temperature in a flow of H2 (57 vol % H2 in N2) for 1 h. (f) Fraction of HD in D-containing compounds.
Another interesting aspect related to HD formation over the above catalysts can be derived from the analysis of the shapes of D2, HD, and Ar transient responses (Figure 7ae). As seen from this figure, HD responses recorded over ZrO2 and 0.05Rh/SiO2 are quite narrow and possess no noticeable tailing (nonzero concentration at high times). In comparison with these two samples, the HD response recorded for differently loaded Rh/ZrO2 samples is broader and reveals apparent tailing: the higher the loading, the more pronounced the tailing. According to the theory of the TAP reactor, (27,28) such changes are due to (i) increasing concentration of active sites for H/D exchange and (ii) increasing rate of HD desorption with rising Rh loading. Our DFT calculations on the effect of Rh on the ability of ZrO2 to release its lattice oxygen predict that this process takes place at the interface between Rh NP and ZrO2 (see Effect of Rh on Redox Properties of ZrO2). As bare ZrO2 can also release lattice oxygen, there should be two types of Zrcus: one is near Rh (Zrcus_1) and another is far away from Rh (Zrcus_2). The Zrcus_1 site shows a higher intrinsic activity for HD exchange in comparison to Zrcus_2 owing to the positive effect of Rh. The results of H/D exchange (Figure 7ae) prove the existence of active Zr sites qualitatively different from those on the surface of bare ZrO2.
Molecular-Level Details of Rh Effect on Propene Formation
To check if Rh can positively affect the rate of propene formation through improvement of H2 desorption, we performed DFT calculations. They were also aimed at understanding the fundamentals responsible for the volcano-type dependence of the rate of propene formation over Rh/ZrO2 on Rh loading or on the degree of removed lattice oxygen. In these calculations, two neighboring Zrcus cations were used as the active site for propene formation according to our previous DFT studies with bare ZrO2. (1921) As the rate-determining step is H2 desorption for the latter materials, we simply calculated this step as well as C3H6 desorption from Rh/ZrO2 with different Ov coverage. The scientific objective was to elucidate the consequences of strong Rh-assisted adsorption of propene (Figure 4c) on the PDH reaction. The Rhx/ZrO2 (x = 1, 4 and 10) models with different Ov concentrations were used for these purposes. The different size of Rh species may also be interpreted as different Rh loadings, as the number of RhZrO2 interactions increases with the size. According to our DFT calculation (see Effect of Rh on Redox Properties of ZrO2), an anion vacancy is formed upon removal of lattice oxygen near the Rh species.
In general, the energy for H2 desorption from Rhx/ZrO2 was lower than 1.40 eV (Figure 8). The latter value corresponds to the energy required for H2 desorption from defective ZrO2(111). (20) The positive effect of Rh on H2 desorption as predicted by our DFT calculations is in agreement with the order of activity of ZrO2 and Rh/ZrO2 in the H/D exchange reaction (Figure 7). The Rh-accelerated H2 desorption should also have a positive effect on the PDH reaction, as this step is the rate-limiting over bare ZrO2. The easier the H2 desorption, the higher the activity in the PDH reaction.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Desorption energies of H2 and C3H6 from the Rh1, Rh4, and Rh10/ZrO2(111) samples with different Ov coverages. RDS (dashed line) stands for the rate-determining step, which is H2 formation over the defective bare m-ZrO2(111). The corresponding activation barrier is 1.40 eV.
Now, we analyze the effect of ZrO2 unsaturation degree on the energies of H2 and C3H6 desorption. An energy of 0.93, 1.07, or 1.11 eV is required for H2 desorption from defective Rh1/ZrO2 with 1Ov, 2Ov, or 3Ov, respectively (Figure 8). The corresponding energies for propene desorption are 1.14, 0.72, and 0.73 eV. Thus, in comparison with the most active defective ZrO2(111) model, Rh should have a positive effect on the PDH activity due to enhancement of H2 desorption. However, when models with larger Rh species (higher Rh loading) were considered, it is obvious that the energy of H2 and C3H6 desorption passed through a minimum with an increase in Ov coverage (Figure 8). In general, the energy of C3H6 desorption is higher than that of H2 desorption. Thus, C3H6 desorption should limit the PDH reaction. For relatively high Ov coverage, Rh/ZrO2 should even show lower intrinsic activity than defective bare ZrO2 (Figure 8).
Keeping the above theoretical results in mind, we can explain the volcanic-type dependence of the rate of propene formation on Rh loading in Figure 5a as follows. There are no doubts that Rh enhances (i) the ability of ZrO2 to form Zrcus sites through removal of lattice oxygen upon reductive catalyst treatment and (ii) H2 activation and desorption. The latter factor explains the positive effect of Rh on the intrinsic activity of Zrcus sites (Figure 6). The Rh-assisted release of lattice oxygen from ZrO2 can, however, negatively influence the rate of propene formation. Such a kind of compensation is because C3H6 desorption but not H2 desorption becomes the rate-limiting step for Rh/ZrO2 materials with an increase in ZrO2 unsaturation with respect to its lattice oxygen. The higher the fraction of anion vacancies, the higher the energy of C3H6 desorption. This property will also have a negative effect on propene selectivity because strongly adsorbed propene will tend to form coke.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, this work elucidated the fundamentals relevant for controlling activity and selectivity of Rh/ZrO2 catalysts in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene. In contrast to the rate of propene formation over bare ZrO2 increasing with rising reduction degree of ZrO2, a volcano-type dependence was obtained for the Rh/ZrO2 catalysts. Moreover, the activity of the latter materials also passed through a maximum with Rh loading. The initial increase in the activity with Rh loading was attributed to (i) an increase in the number of oxygen vacancies in the vicinity of the supported metal and (ii) a Rh-assisted improved H2 desorption, which is the rate-limiting step for the PDH reaction over bare ZrO2. The decrease in the activity at high Rh loading or high ZrO2-reduction degree of Rh/ZrO2 is due to an increase in the energy of propene desorption from Rh, resulting in hindered H2 desorption.
Thus, to improve the activity of ZrO2-based catalysts through supported metals, the latter should be able to activate hydrogen but show low ability for C3H6 adsorption. The latter property is also relevant for hindering coke formation from adsorbed propene species. This fundamental knowledge opens up the possibility for purposeful screening of different supported metals or alloys to tune both the activity and selectivity of ZrO2-based catalysts.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 