<DOCUMENT>
Determining the active site in a catalytic process: Operando spectroscopy is more than a buzzword
Determining the active site in a catalyst material and elucidating the related reaction mechanism remain intellectual challenges and are of paramount importance for the rational development of new or better catalysts. Identifying active sites should in principle be possible by studying the catalyst at its working place under real reaction conditions. This is the field of operando spectroscopy, a research area, which is under intense development and of high interest to the catalysis community. This feature article presents an attempt of a roadmap for future operando spectroscopy studies. Two case studies will illustrate the potential and limitations of the operando approach. A first study deals with operando vibrational spectroscopy to obtain mechanistic insight in the destruction of chlorinated hydrocarbons with steam over lanthanide oxide-based catalysts. The second case study elaborates on the use of operando electronic spectroscopy to elucidate the active alkane dehydrogenation site in supported chromium oxide catalysts.
Introduction
Understanding how a substrate molecule is transformed into a reaction product over a catalytic material is a curiosity driven challenge.1–5 Ideally, chemists would like to have fundamental insight in the reaction cycle and how a catalyst material may affect this reaction cycle. This would enable scientists to design better or even new catalytic materials to increase the conversion and selectivity towards the desired reaction product. This is a necessity for the waste-free production of bulk and fine chemicals, and therefore for the creation of a sustainable society.
A catalytic cycle is a hypothesized network of reaction steps describing how the transformation of a substrate molecule towards a reaction product occurs over one or a cascade of catalytic active sites. The development of such a network can occur at different levels of sophistication of which the simplest is the formulation of the elementary reaction steps and a description of the overall nature of the catalytic active site. In contrast, the most sophisticated and desired level is the description of the transformation process in terms of (a) reaction trajectories together with the reaction dynamics and kinetics along those trajectories and (b) molecular insight in catalytic active sites and the dynamics towards their coordination environment. Understanding catalytic reactions at a fundamental level implies that the developed reaction network should be experimentally and theoretically tested in sufficient detail. Although many chemists have been working now for decades to demystify catalytic processes, unfortunately only in a limited number of cases such detailed understanding has already been achieved.
Fig. 1 illustrates the approach, which most catalyst scientists are following to unravel the working principles of catalyst materials. At first, the catalytic activity and selectivity of the catalyst will be determined. Secondly, the catalyst will be characterized with one or more mainly spectroscopic techniques. Both type of information about the catalyst material will be measured as a function of a set of experimental parameters (reaction temperature, reaction pressure, catalyst composition, etc.). This is mostly done via a one variable at a time (OVAT) approach; i.e., one variable, such as reaction temperature is progressively increased, while keeping all the other parameters constant. However, high throughput experimentation (HTE) or design of experiments (DOE) may nowadays help to speed up the built up of an n-dimensional catalyst reaction and spectroscopic data space.6–8 Linking both sets of databases allows-in principle-the development of the so-called quantitative structure–activity relationships (QSARs). Such relationships can be further used to develop new or more selective and active catalysts. This approach can be named “predictive catalysis” or “knowledge-based catalyst design”. Another possibility is to use the QSARs knowledge in developing an expert system for a particular catalyst, which allows monitoring, by spectroscopic means, the physicochemical changes taking place in the catalyst during chemical operation. Such an expert system could then be used to evaluate on-linee.g. catalyst deactivation and to decide when the catalyst should be regenerated or replaced. Ultimately, such systems can be used for on-line optimization and fine-tuning of the experimental conditions for a catalytic process.
Fig. 1 Scientific approach for preparing new or better catalysts and controlling on-line a catalytic reactor with spectroscopy. Spectroscopic and catalytic databases should be built up and connected to define relevant structure-activity relationships and to gain insight in the reaction mechanism and the active site (A, active site; S, spectator species; R, reaction intermediate; Su, substrate and Rp, reaction product).
However, the establishment of useful QSARs is far from evident, simply because the experimental conditions to perform both type of measurements; i.e., catalytic and spectroscopic experiments, are mostly not identical. Indeed, usually spectroscopy is done at room temperature or even at liquid nitrogen or helium temperature to increase the sensitivity of the spectroscopic measurements. Also some spectroscopic techniques require (high) vacuum conditions,9 quenching to temporarily stop the reaction cycle,10etc.. On the other hand, catalytic measurements are mostly done at high temperatures or even high pressures. So, often there is a mismatch between the information obtained by spectroscopy and catalysis, leading to QSARs with insufficient details on the active site and reaction mechanism to use them for predictive catalysis or expert system development.
To circumvent this problem, spectroscopy should ideally be performed under realistic catalytic conditions. This is the field of in situ spectroscopy; i.e., spectroscopy of the catalyst material, while the catalytic reaction is running.11–22 Unfortunately, performing an ideal in situ experiment is not easy and may remain a fantasy as suggested by Haw in his textbook on in situ spectroscopy of heterogeneous catalysts.23 According to this author, a perfect in situ experiment would look inside an industrial reactor and reveal the most intimate details of a surface chemical reaction, including transition states of reactions. The envisaged sensor would profile chemical compositions on the scale of catalyst particles as well as spatial variations over the volume of the reactor with a high time resolution. Haw differentiates therefore between the “purest” definition of the term “in situ spectroscopy”, in which the spectroscopic measurement should be made under reaction conditions and a more inclusive definition, which refers to any spectroscopic result that is relevant to reaction conditions and teaches us about catalytic chemistry. This-although valuable-argument by J. F. Haw, together with the fact that the word “in situ” is used in connection with a specific catalyst handling, such as in situ regeneration and in situ activation, has lead to the launch of a new name for the field of Haw's “purest” definition of “in situ spectroscopy”. This name is “operando spectroscopy” and it originates from the Latin gerund, meaning operating or working.24 The advantage of the name “operando” is a clear distinction between in situ spectroscopic studies of a working catalyst under realistic reaction conditions and other interesting-but defined according to the more inclusive definition-in situ studies. The field of operando spectroscopy is under intense development11,17,25–29 and the ultimate dream is still to perform the ideal in situ-or-better operando-experiment as outlined by Haw.23 This should be possible if we can develop technology to such advanced levels that no or only minor concessions in time scale, temperature, pressure and reactor design have to be made and that the related data processing and handling becomes less cumbersome.
Owing to the broadness of the topic, this feature article on operando spectroscopy cannot be regarded as a complete overview of the field. It is also limited to spectroscopic techniques based on the interaction of photons with catalyst materials, excluding many valuable surface science techniques (e.g. XPS),30–33 electron microscopy (e.g. TEM),34–37 diffraction techniques (e.g. XRD)38 as well as scattering techniques (e.g. SAXS).38 As a consequence, it will not deal with the many useful characterization techniques, which are nowadays developed to bridge the existing pressure and material gap in e.g. surface science.39–45 The paper starts with a discussion on active sites and the problems associated with elucidating the active site in a catalytic process. In a second part, an attempt of a roadmap for future operando spectroscopy studies will be presented. The potential of operando spectroscopy will be illustrated with two case studies from our own work; i.e. the destruction of chlorinated hydrocarbons with steam over lanthanide oxide-based catalysts and the dehydrogenation of alkanes over supported chromium oxide catalysts. The paper ends with some concluding remarks and a look into the future. For more detailed accounts and an overview of the possibilities and limitations of spectroscopic techniques, the reader is referred to review papers,11–20 two special issues in Topics in Catalysis21,22 and two textbooks.23,46
Active sites
Active sites can be defined as entities, which directly participate in the catalytic reaction cycle. They are usually present in extremely small amounts. Determining active sites with operando spectroscopy is complicated by at least two properties of the catalyst material:
(a) The co-occurrence of spectator species, reaction intermediates and active sites (Fig. 1). Spectator species do not participate in the reaction, but will often be present in large amounts in the catalyst material, complicating the spectroscopic analysis. Possible solutions to discriminate between active sites and spectator species are (1) the selection of a battery of complementary characterization techniques; (2) the development of site-selective spectroscopy with sufficient discriminative power and (3) the use of pulse-response and step-response experimentation. One can “disturb” a catalyst material by instantly changing the gas composition, reaction temperature or reaction pressure and measuring the effect of this action on the spectroscopic data. The influence of such pulse or step on the change in the reaction product and active site distribution may enable the scientist to assign specific spectral bands to an active site instead of a spectator species.
(b) The intrinsic heterogeneity of the majority of the catalytic systems, leading to a wide range of active sites-each with their own selectivity and reactivity-and promoter elements. This catalyst complexity is especially pronounced for heterogeneous catalysts since often several preparation and treatment steps are needed before the materials are ready for catalytic operation. Therefore, more attention should be directed in the catalysis community towards high-quality and reproducible catalyst synthesis. Samples, which are not well characterized by classical characterization techniques, simply do not deserve an operando characterization study.
Once specific spectral bands can be assigned to an active site or reaction intermediate, scientists are confronted with the interpretation of the data in terms of its molecular structure, coordination geometry and oxidation state. Since active sites and reaction intermediates are often unknown species, no reference books can be consulted and the only solution is the theoretical calculation of the spectroscopic properties on relevant computer models of a series of potential active sites and reaction intermediates. A close match between the theoretical and experimental spectra allows giving a detailed description of the structure of the active site or reaction intermediate. Based on this knowledge, a reaction cycle can be proposed and mechanistic insight can be obtained.
Potential roadmap for operando spectroscopic studies
Up to now, a lot of spectroscopic techniques have been used under experimental conditions far from relevant catalytic conditions. In cases where realistic catalytic conditions were chosen, the characterization studies were mostly limited to the use of one particular operando spectroscopic technique measuring the catalyst under steady-state conditions, leading to spectroscopic data, which do not change with increasing reaction time.
The disadvantages of this approach are threefold:
(1) The spectroscopic information obtained from a catalyst material under ex situ conditions is only of little relevance since important structural and physicochemical changes can take place in the catalyst material when present in the chemical reactor. Indeed, it is known that the presence of water, oxygen or other molecules may completely alter the molecular structure of a catalyst.47 The concessions made for reactor design and reaction temperature/pressure lead to information with sometimes little relevance for the operating catalyst.
(2) Each spectroscopic technique has its own sensitivity and limitations, which mean that one technique will not provide all necessary chemical information (e.g. oxidation state) about the working catalyst. Thus, more research has to be directed towards an intelligent combination of two or more spectroscopic techniques, which provides complementary information on the molecular structure and composition of a catalyst under working conditions.
(3) The time resolution is often too low to detect reaction intermediates. As stated above, one of the challenges is to discriminate between spectator species and species actively involved in the catalytic event and to decrease the time necessary for measuring unusual states and reaction intermediates in an active catalyst. This requires the development of time-resolved techniques for measuring catalysts in the sub-second region in combination with fast on-line product analysis and transient kinetic experimentation.
Based on these observations, one can try to make an attempt of a roadmap for operando spectroscopy, setting the field for the years to come. I am fully aware that such an attempt has the risk to fail or to be incomplete. Nevertheless, it has the advantage that it may stimulate some discussion in the catalysis community. My ideas are summarized in Fig. 2 and three areas of interest for future operando studies are proposed. Area 1 can be coined as “measuring better, measuring faster and measuring more”, whereas Area 2 concerns the logic extension of the operational window of operando studies to catalytic liquid-solid and liquid-gas-solid reaction systems. Area 3 of the proposed roadmap is much more speculative and can be named “single molecule and single site operando spectroscopy-microscopy”. In what follows, I will discuss more in detail how operando spectroscopy may develop in these three areas.
Fig. 2 Potential roadmap for future operando spectroscopic studies. Three areas of interest are proposed: Area I, measuring better, measuring faster and measuring more; Area II, extension of the operational window from mono-phase over bi-phase to tri-phase reaction systems and Area III, single molecule and single site operando spectroscopy-microscopy.
The first step in Area 1 is “Measuring better”, which means that spectroscopic and catalytic measurements should be done on the same catalyst material at the same time and under optimal spectroscopic and catalytic conditions. Although it sounds simple, this is still not often the case. The crucial step here is to design the ideal spectroscopic-reaction cell for operando spectroscopy, which allows measuring at e.g. high temperatures and pressures. Step 2 in Area 1 is “Measuring faster” and refers to developing the field of time-resolved spectroscopy in the sub-second region. This development should go hand in hand with the use of step/pulse-response experiments necessary to discriminate between active sites and spectator species. Finally, Step 3 in Area 1 is “Measuring more” and implies that we should combine two or more spectroscopic techniques in one spectroscopic-reaction cell. It is introducing the multi-technique approach in the field of operando spectroscopy. Several studies have already appeared in the literature, in which different characterization techniques are combined: XRD-EXAFS,48–51 EPR-UV–VIS,52–54 UV–VIS-EXAFS55 and UV–VIS-Raman.56
An example of an operando set-up for heterogeneous catalysts for gas-phase and slurry phase reactions meeting the ambitions of Area 1 is currently under development at Utrecht University. It is schematically illustrated in Fig. 3 for a fixed bed reactor system. The set-up combines three complementary spectroscopic techniques for studying catalytic solids in the second or sub-second region in one lab-scale reactor. The techniques are: (1) Quick X-ray absorption spectroscopy (QXAFS) or energy dispersive X-ray absorption spectroscopy (ED-XAFS) depending on the absorption properties of the catalytic material; (2) multi-frequency laser Raman spectroscopy and (3) optical fiber electronic spectroscopy in the UV–VIS–NIR region. Mass spectrometry and a micro-gas chromatography will be used for on-line measuring the catalytic performance and thus for building up the catalytic database. The envisaged set-up should be mobile since it has to be transferred and installed at an appropriate EXAFS beamline.
Fig. 3 Operando set-up for time-resolved measurements of catalytic solids making use of UV–VIS, Raman and EXAFS spectroscopy.
There are several boundaries related to the developments in Area 1. First of all, the combination of e.g. three spectroscopic techniques simultaneously measuring spectra in approximately 0.05 s will lead to the creation of three sets of 1200 spectra in only 1 min. It is obvious that it will be impossible to analyze these spectra one after each other. Therefore chemometrical techniques, such as principal component analysis, have to be called in to analyze the data in an efficient way. Consequently, data automation becomes a necessity as well as help in data interpretation. Special software on workstations should become available especially if we are able to push the time resolution down to μs and ns or maybe later to ps or fs. Because reasonable signal to noise ratios are required spectrometer instrumentation should develop at a similar pace. Another important aspect is that the operando measurement may not influence the data. This is far from evident if we use laser or synchrotron radiation since such light sources easily can lead to temperature increases or catalyst damage. This is often an underestimated problem. Finally, one spectroscopic technique may interfere with another and it is very important to verify the contributions in a spectrum of the first technique originating from the light source of a second technique.
Area 2 of the roadmap of Fig. 2 concerns the expansion of the application domain of operando spectroscopy from mono-phase to multi-phase reaction systems. It is fair to say that operando spectroscopy of homogeneous catalysis (mono-phase reaction systems) is relatively simple because the catalyst material can be more easily explored with spectroscopic techniques. Within the field of heterogeneous catalysis (multi-phase reaction systems) one has to discriminate between bi-phase reaction systems (catalytic solid-gas and solid-liquid interfaces operative in e.g. fixed-bed, fluidized-bed and slurry reactors) and three-phase reaction systems (catalytic gas-liquid-solid interfaces operative in e.g. trickle bed reactors). Up to now most efforts in the operando spectroscopy literature has been devoted to gas-solid reaction systems, whereas the study of catalytic solid-liquid and gas-liquid-solid reaction systems can be regarded as still in its infancy. There are, however, many challenges when studying the catalytic solid-liquid and later on the solid-liquid-gas interfaces. One of the most important difficulties is that the signals of interest from the interface are usually much smaller than the signals of the surrounding liquid phase (and gas phase). This is illustrated in Fig. 4, which shows an operando Raman spectrum of a Phillips 1 wt.% Cr/SiO2 polymerization catalyst activated with a co-catalyst and operating at 90 °C and 1 atm in a slurry reactor fed with ethylene.57 The solvent for the polymerization reaction is toluene and it is clear that the Raman spectrum of the active reaction mixture is dominated by contributions from the solvent molecule, hampering the observation of the catalyst material, and as a consequence, of the catalytic active site. An interesting approach to tackle this problem is the use of attenuated total reflection infrared (ATR-IR) spectroscopy as explored by Baiker and co-workers.58,59
Fig. 4 Operando Raman spectra of a 1 wt.% Cr/SiO2 polymerization catalyst activated with a co-catalyst and operating at 90 °C and 1 atm in a slurry reactor fed with ethylene: (A) Reaction mixture and (B) Solvent (toluene) and co-catalyst only.
Area 3 of the proposed roadmap is more speculative, but also very challenging. It could be named single molecule and single site chemistry as revealed by operando spectroscopy–microscopy. It would be terrific if we could monitor the catalytic transformation of a substrate molecule on a particular active site and detect the formation of the corresponding reaction intermediate and later on that of the reaction product molecule. It would require focusing on one single active site and monitoring the chemistry, which is taking place at this site. A nice step towards such approach has been recently achieved by Niemantsverdriet and co-workers.60–62 These authors were able to visualize the polymerization activity of a single Cr polymerization site in a surface model Cr/SiO2 catalyst. A related question is here if we can discriminate between different active sites present at a catalytic surface. For example, can we discriminate with operando spectroscopy–microscopy between an oligomerization and a polymerization site in a Phillips Cr/SiO2 catalyst producing linear low-density polyethylene?
Case studies
1. Destruction of chlorinated hydrocarbons with steam over lanthanide oxide-based catalysts
Chlorinated hydrocarbons are toxic compounds for which the environment has only little assimilative capacity.63,64 Currently thermal incineration at temperatures higher than 1300 °C is used,65,66 but these high temperatures and related costs provide a motivation to look for preferentially catalytic solutions. Recently, we have discovered a new class of catalyst materials active in the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam.67–69 It was found that lanthanide oxide-based catalysts show the highest hydrolysis activities for CCl4 at temperatures as low as 200–350 °C and the net reaction of this process can be written as CCl4 + 2 H2O → 4 HCl + CO2. This catalytic reaction is considered to be a combination of two non-catalytic reactions, namely destructive adsorption of CCl4 on the surface of the lanthanide oxide and concurrent dechlorination of the formed partially chlorinated lanthanide oxide by steam. These reactions can be written for La2O3 as follows:
3/2 CCl4 + La2O3 → 2 LaCl3 + 3/2 CO2
and
2 LaCl3 + 3 H2O → La2O3 + 6 HCl.
Operando Raman spectroscopy has been used to identify the active phases in La2O3 and 10 wt.% La2O3/Al2O3 catalysts during the decomposition of CCl4 decomposition in the presence of steam at 350 °C. Some pictures of the used operando Raman cell for performing these experiments are given in Fig. 5. The Raman spectra were taken from the middle of the catalyst bed and Fig. 6A shows the Raman spectra collected during the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam with a H2O to CCl4 molar ratio of 61. The spectrum of the starting material; i.e., pure La2O3, is dominated by Raman bands at 106, 190 and 408 cm−1.70–73 High destruction activities were obtained for this material. After 16 h on stream, the bands due to La2O3 disappear, while new Raman bands at 122, 186, 210, 334, 375 and 438 cm−1 become apparent. These Raman bands, except the band at 375 cm−1, are attributed to a LaOCl phase.70–73 The Raman band located at 375 cm−1 is due to a luminescence effect of the catalytic solid. Based on these data one can state that an almost complete transformation of the La2O3 phase into the LaOCl phase occurred, according to the reaction: La2O3 + ½ CCl4 → 2 LaOCl + ½ CO2. Complete CCl4 conversion, however, was still obtained, suggesting that LaOCl, in addition to a La2O3 phase, is catalytically active. After 36 h on stream, new Raman bands at 183 and 208 cm−1 became visible, indicating an onset of a further transformation into a LaCl3 phase,70–73 according to the reaction: 2 LaOCl + CCl4 → 2 LaCl3 + CO2. After 48 h, both lanthanum phases were still clearly present, but the intensity of the LaOCl bands decreased, while those of the LaCl3 phase increased.
Fig. 5 Operando Raman set-up for measuring catalytic solids during the destruction of CCl4 in the presence of steam at 350 °C and 1 atm: (a) Raman probe directs light in the opening of the oven; and (b + c) oven opened indicating the position of the quartz tube reactor with optical grade windows.
Fig. 6 Operando Raman spectra of La2O3 during the reaction of CCl4 + H2O (H2O to CCl4 molar ratio of 61) at 350 °C: (A) after different times on stream; and (B) reactor “mapping” from top to bottom after 36 h on stream.
To confirm this progressive chlorination of the La2O3 catalyst, a mapping of the catalyst bed was performed after 36 h, and the corresponding Raman spectra are shown in Fig. 6B. The spectra indicate that almost a pure LaCl3 phase was formed at the top of the reactor (reactor inlet). However, at the bottom (reactor outlet), the catalytic solid remained as a La2O3 phase and in the middle section, the presence of all three lanthanum phases was detected. Further experimentation leaded to the formation of an inactive catalytic solid, which was identified as pure LaCl3. Similar results were obtained for praesodinium, neodynium and cerium oxides.
In a second series of experiments, the effect of the amount of steam in the inlet feed was investigated with operando Raman spectroscopy by changing the H2O to CCl4 molar ratio from 360 to 10. The Raman spectra were again collected from the middle of the catalyst bed. The spectra in Fig. 7 indicate that a high steam level in the gas inlet practically preserved the catalytic solid in its La2O3 form after 16 h on stream. A complete CCl4 conversion was still observed under these conditions. A low water to CCl4 molar ratio of 10, however, led to a fast chlorination of La2O3 to LaOCl and, further, to LaCl3 and, consequently, to an almost complete loss of the decomposition activity for CCl4. This result gives further evidence for the critical role of lattice oxygen in CCl4 decomposition and the catalytic inactivity of the LaCl3 phase. Similar observations could be made for 10 wt.% La2O3/Al2O3 catalysts, although operando Raman spectroscopy was often hindered by a strong fluorescence background. A Raman spectrum of a 10 wt.% La2O3/Al2O3 catalyst after decomposing 8 h CCl4 decomposition in the presence of steam at 350 °C with a H2O to CCl4 molar ratio of 61 showed weak Raman bands originating from a LaOCl phase. This indicates that also on an alumina support an active LaOCl phase could be formed.
Fig. 7 Operando Raman spectra of La2O3 during the reaction of CCl4 + H2O at 350 °C for H2O to CCl4 molar ratios of 360:1 and 10:1 after different times on stream.
Operando IR spectra of the gas phase were also collected to investigate the formation of possible gaseous intermediates during the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam. IR spectra collected during CCl4 conversion in the presence of steam over La2O3 at 350 °C as a function of the reaction time are given in Fig. 8. IR peaks were observed at 2890, 2348, 2143 and 1827 cm−1. They correspond respectively to HCl, CO2, CO and COCl2. CO2 and HCl are expected because they are the reaction products of this decomposition process. CO, although formed in small amounts, could be formed according to the reaction: CCl4 + H2O → CO + 2 HCl + Cl2. Cl2 is likely to react with the catalyst surface with the formation of O2 and, therefore, this reaction can be rewritten as 2 CCl4 + 4 H2O → 2 CO + 8 HCl + O2. COCl2 is considered as a reaction intermediate and higher amounts of this compound are found with increasing reaction temperatures.
Fig. 8 Operando infrared spectra of the gas phase in the reactor cell after (1) 0.5, (2) 1, (3) 2, (4) 4 and (5) 8 h on stream for the reaction of CCl4 + H2O (H2O to CCl4 molar ratio of 61) over La2O3 at 350 °C: A, HCl; B, CO2; C, CO and D, COCl2.
Catalytic experiments indicated that steam is essential for catalytic operation and an almost complete loss of activity was observed if steam in the inlet feed was turned off. When steam was added again to the system, a complete CCl4 destruction was readily regained. In addition to such steam experiments, the effect of oxygen addition was investigated and it was found that the addition of oxygen resulted in a decrease of the catalyst activity with 40% at a reaction temperature of 350 °C. This result suggests that the active site for this process is lattice, rather than adsorbed oxygen, and that gas-phase CCl4and O2 compete for the active sites.
In order to obtain more insight in the reaction mechanism we have conducted density functional theory (DFT) calculations on a periodic La2O3(001) model surface. It was found that the destructive adsorption of CCl4 over La2O3 occurs by a step-wise chlorine donation from the hydrocarbon to the surface (step 1), followed by chlorine removal from the surface with steam (step 2). The first step is illustrated in Fig. 9. When CCl4 approaches the surface, one of the chlorine atoms is activated over a surface acid site associated with La. In the identified transition state, the activated chlorine gets a partial negative charge (Clδ−) and the C–Cl distance for the activated bond increases. The rest of the hydrocarbon fragment becomes (CCl3)δ+, and the other C–Cl distances decrease. This initial step can be described as an electrophilic elimination over an acid site. The CCl3 entity is then stabilized on a terminal lattice oxygen site by forming a O–CCl3 species. In essence, one of the La–O–La bonds breaks, and La–Cl and La–O–CCl3 bonds are formed. This is the rate determining step of the whole reaction process. The surface chlorine atom is bridging two lanthanum atoms. The terminal lattice oxygen bonded to carbon is lifted up from its original position, with the La–O bond distance increasing. The proposed O–CCl3 surface reaction intermediate, which we were not able to identify with operando vibrational spectroscopy, can decompose by donating a chlorine atom to the surface and abstracting the bonding lattice oxygen. This reaction can occur under two energetically equivalent scenarios: either in one step, by concerted chlorine donation and O–CCl2 desorption, or in two steps, when chlorine is donated first. The O–CCl3 decomposition is similar to the previously described step in the sense that La–O and C–Cl bonds are broken and, instead, La–Cl and C–O bonds are formed. The overall stoichiometry for the two elementary steps corresponds to an exchange of two chlorine atoms from the hydrocarbon for one lattice oxygen atom with the formation a gas-phase phosgene reaction intermediate, which has been experimentally observed with operando IR measurements. Similarly to CCl4, the COCl2 intermediate can adsorb on terminal lattice oxygen atoms to form a second surface reaction intermediate, O–COCl, by splitting a chlorine atom. The donation of the last chlorine atom from O–COCl to the surface leads to the formation of a gas-phase CO2.
Fig. 9 First step in the reaction mechanism for the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam over a La2O3 catalyst.
The second step of the catalytic process is the dechlorination of the catalyst surface with steam and the refreshing of the surface with lattice oxygen atoms. This is illustrated in Fig. 10. The reactions proceed by a step-wise hydroxyl formation and a reaction between a surface hydroxyl and a surface chlorine. This can be written down as follows:
Cls + H2O → HCl + OHs
and
Cls + OHs → HCl + Os
It is clear that these theoretical calculations confirm our operando spectroscopy findings that both La2O3 and LaOCl are active catalyst phases because they contain the appropriate oxygen atoms catalyzing the first C–Cl bond breaking in a CCl4 molecule. Furthermore, COCl2 is also proposed as a reaction intermediate in the destruction process. Unfortunately, operando vibrational spectroscopy does not allow detecting the proposed surface reaction intermediates. Finally, the LaCl3 phase cannot be regarded as an active catalyst material and high H2O to CCl4 molar ratios in the feed are crucial in order to keep the catalyst surface sufficient “chlorine-free” to be able to destroy CCl4 molecules.
Fig. 10 Second step in the reaction mechanism for the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam over a La2O3 catalyst.
2. Dehydrogenation of alkanes over supported chromium oxide catalysts
The annual growth rate of the demand for light olefins is currently very high. It is even expected to increase for propene in the next decade. This puts a lot of pressure on the operators of naphtha crackers. As a consequence, the catalytic dehydrogenation of alkanes is of great importance as an effective route for the direct production of light alkenes.74–75 A Cr/Al2O3 catalyst doped with an alkaline earth metal oxide (typical potassium) is industrially used for this process, and much research has been devoted to elucidate its active dehydrogenation site as well as its reaction and deactivation mechanism.76,77 The oxidation state of the active Cr-species for alkane dehydrogenation has been the subject of debate and controversy for many years and both Cr3+ and Cr2+ have been proposed to be the active species. Operando spectroscopy has been used in our group for some years to study the Cr/Al2O3 dehydrogenation catalyst in action and to identify the active oxidation state of Cr for propane dehydrogenation.
Actually, this catalytic system was used in our laboratory as a model reaction to develop the operando approach for measuring catalytic solids in a better, faster and combined spectroscopic way (Area 1 of the roadmap outlined in Fig. 2). Three different set-ups have been explored and schematic representations of the instrumentation used are shown in Figs. 11–13. Table 1 compares the performances and requirements of these three set-ups to measure operando UV–VIS spectra. The first set-up is a Praying Mantis attachment, which is placed in a regular UV–VIS–NIR spectrometer to record diffuse reflectance UV–VIS spectra of the catalytic solid in a flow of alkanes at temperatures up to about 550 °C (Fig. 11).78,79 Detection was done with a photomultiplier detector leading to typical measurement times of about 1 min. Disadvantages are the long measurement times, the inaccurate temperature read-out near the catalyst bed and the low alkane conversions obtained because the set-up can hardly be seen as a fixed bed reactor. Furthermore, the spectrum is collected wavelength after wavelength, which implies that the different parts of a spectrum do not represent the same reaction time. These problems were solved using the second operando set-up based on optical fiber technology (Fig. 12).80,81 This set-up consists of an optical fiber probe positioned in a regular fixed bed catalytic reactor. The time to measure a spectrum could be decreased to about 28 ms, but often 70 spectra had to be averaged to obtain a spectrum with a good signal to noise ratio. The use of a photo-diode array (PDA) or charge-coupled-device (CCD) detector allow to measure the whole spectral range at once and as a consequence the different parts of a spectrum represent the same reaction time. The temperature limitation for the high temperature probe was still limited to about 600 °C. However, in our latest operando set-up (Fig. 13).56 we are able (1) to use probes operating at temperatures as high as 800 °C, (2) to measure spectra in the range 200–1100 nm, (3) to decrease the measurement time of one spectrum down to 6 ms and (4) to improve the signal-to-noise ratio with a better detector. The high temperature probe was also not placed anymore in the reactor itself because of the coke formation on the probe head. We also have coupled a second spectroscopic technique to the fixed-bed reactor, namely Raman spectroscopy. The Raman spectra can be recorded with a typical time resolution of about 1 min. On-line activity is measured with a mass spectrometer or a micro-gas chromatograph. We are now expanding the potential of this operando set-up by including the EXAFS technique and future experiments on the Cr/Al2O3 catalyst will be done with the set-up described in Fig. 3.
Fig. 11 Scheme of the Praying Mantis UV–VIS set-up for measuring catalytic solids under working conditions.
Fig. 12 Scheme of the fiber optic UV–VIS set-up for measuring catalytic solids under working conditions.
Fig. 13 Scheme of the combined UV–VIS-Raman set-up for measuring catalytic solids under working conditions.
Table 1 Comparison of the performances and requirements of different set-ups for measuring operando UV–VIS spectra
Performances and requirements Praying Mantis UV–VIS set-up Fiber optic UV–VIS set-up Combined UV–VIS-Raman set-up
Time needed to acquire a UV–VIS spectrum 60 s 0.028 s 0.006 s
Spectral range of UV–VIS spectrum 200–800 nm 200–800 nm 200–1100 nm
Different parts of the UV–VIS spectrum represent the same time No Yes Yes
Temperature limitation of UV–VIS probe 550 °C 600 °C 800 °C
Reactor requirements Optical cell Fixed bed reactor Fixed bed reactor
Figs. 14–16 illustrate the potential of the combined operando UV–VIS-Raman set-up for studying the alkane dehydrogenation sites of a 0.5 wt.% Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. UV–VIS, Raman and catalytic data were simultaneously measured during four successive dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles at 580 °C. Fig. 14 shows the measured catalytic activity data for the dehydrogenation of propane to propene as measured with micro-gas chromatography. It can be seen that the catalyst performance does not change from one dehydrogenation cycle to the next one, but changes significantly within one dehydrogenation cycle. The conversion of propane to propene gradually increases with increasing time-on-stream and reaches a maximum of 10% at the end of the dehydrogenation cycle, which is after 28 min. Longer reaction times do not significantly increases the yield of propene. This can be seen in the fourth dehydrogenation cycle, which takes than 1 h. Thus, a stable dehydrogenation activity of about 10% could be obtained and maintained over this catalyst for more than 1 h and for successive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.
Fig. 14 Conversion of propane to propene at 580 °C over a 0.5 wt.% Cr/Al2O3 catalyst during four successive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.
Fig. 15 Operando UV–VIS spectra of a 0.5 wt.% Cr/Al2O3 catalyst measured during the first dehydrogenation cycle in a stream of propane in He at 580 °C as a function of time on stream.
Fig. 16 Operando UV–VIS spectra of a 0.5 wt.% Cr/Al2O3 catalyst measured during the first regeneration cycle in a stream of oxygen at 580 °C as a function of time on stream.
As an example, Fig. 15 illustrates the changes taking place in the UV–VIS spectra for the first dehydrogenation cycle as a function of time. The initial spectrum of the Cr/Al2O3 catalyst treated in oxygen is characterized by two intense O → Cr6+ charge transfer (CT) transitions located at 270 and 380 nm. These bands are typical for the presence of surface chromate.77 The two CT-bands gradually decrease in intensity within the first 15 s of the dehydrogenation cycle and this intensity decrease is accompanied by the formation of CO2. Thus, Cr6+ is reduced to a lower oxidation state in the presence of propane. The presence of an isobestic point at around 582 nm confirms this gradual transformation of Cr6+ to a second Crn+-species (with n < 6). This second surface Cr-species is characterized by absorption bands located at 465 and 650 nm, which are typical d-d transitions of pseudo-octahedral Cr3+.77 No indication of Cr2+-species could be observed in the UV–VIS spectra at lower energy values. With our two previous set-ups (Table 1) the measured UV–VIS spectra did not extend to sufficiently low energy to exclude the presence of Cr2+. Thus, by measuring down to 1100 nm we can state that Cr3+-sites are exclusively formed under typical propane dehydrogenation conditions. This observation allows us to conclude that Cr3+-species are the active alkane dehydrogenation sites. The sharp negative peaks located at 532 and 1064 are due to interference by light of the Raman laser scattered at the catalyst particles, while the spike at 656 nm is an artifact of the UV–VIS spectrometer (most intense light emitted from the deuterium lamp). Operando Raman spectroscopy shows the gradual increase of bands in the 1200–1650 cm−1 region as a function of the reaction time. These bands are typical for (poly-) aromatic ring stretching CC vibrations of coke.
In the oxidation cycles, the coke formed during alkane dehydrogenation is combusted from the catalyst as can be concluded from the formation of CO2 in the beginning of the regeneration cycles, from the increase of the catalyst bed temperature and the decrease of the Raman bands in the 1200–1650 cm−1 region. During the catalyst regeneration the operando UV–VIS spectra return completely to the initial state of Fig. 15, but the re-oxidation of Cr3+ to Cr6+ with oxygen is much slower than the reduction of surface chromate in propane during the dehydrogenation cycle. Indeed, it takes about 1 min before the Cr6+ CT-bands at 270 and 280 nm are gaining their initial intensities during catalyst regeneration. This suggests that the active Cr3+-sites are somehow buried by coke or are partially diffusing into the alumina support surface, hampering their fast re-oxidation. Summarizing, pseudo-octahedral Cr3+-sites are formed under typical alkane dehydrogenation conditions. These surface species can be proposed as the active sites for this catalytic process since no Cr2+-species could be observed under reaction conditions.
Concluding remarks and look into the future
Many catalyst discoveries are based on serendipity or on a trial-and-error approach often accelerated these days by the use of high-throughput experimentation and design of experiment techniques. They have led repeatedly and will still lead in the future to new industrial catalytic processes. However, rational catalyst design should still be the ultimate goal of catalyst scientists simply because it is an intellectual challenge to design new catalytic materials based on fundamental knowledge about the active site. This ambition requires fundamental insight in the molecular structure of the active site and in the reaction and deactivation mechanism of a catalytic process. To do so, researchers are nowadays developing spectroscopic tools to study catalyst materials inside a reactor without making major concessions in e.g. time scale, reaction temperature, reaction pressure and reactor design. This research field has been coined with the name operando spectroscopy.
Operando spectroscopy or characterization allows creating relevant quantitative structure-activity relationships and expert systems for on-line process control. The main challenges in this exciting field are:
(a) The development of time-resolved spectroscopy, in conjunction with the design and construction of high quality spectroscopic-reaction cells, which allow combining complementary information of two or more characterization techniques.
(b) The study of catalytic solid–liquid and gas–liquid–solid reaction systems and the development of tools enabling the study of these catalytic interfaces.
(c) The combination of operando microscopy and spectroscopy with the possibility to focus on the catalytic chemistry of one single active site. This requires the development of site-selective spectroscopy-microscopy techniques.
Finally, it should be clear that operando characterization cannot be just regarded as the Emperor's new clothes because it clearly defines the experimental conditions how a combined spectroscopic-catalytic experiment should be done. It therefore differentiates itself from the more inclusive definition of in situ spectroscopy, as recently discussed by Haw. Operando spectroscopy is considered to be very important for the future development of catalysis science and engineering. The developed techniques will also be useful to better understand the fundamentals of catalyst synthesis.
Acknowledgements
B. M. W. acknowledges the Dutch Science Foundation (NWO-CW) for a Van der Leeuw and VICI grant. The author is grateful to S. G. Podkolzin and T. A. Nijhuis for fruitful discussions on the research included in this manuscript.
References
Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis , G. Ertl, H. Knozinger and J. Weitkamp, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 1997, Search PubMed .
J. M. Thomas and W. J. Thomas , Principles and Practice of Heterogeneous Catalysis , VCH, Weinheim, 1997, Search PubMed .
J. W. Niemantsverdriet Spectroscopy in Catalysis, an introduction , VCH, Weinheim, 1993, Search PubMed .
Spectroscopy of Transition Metal Ions on Surfaces , B. M. Weckhuysen, P. Van Der Voort and G. Catana, Leuven University Press, 2000, Search PubMed .
Characterization of Catalytic Materials , I. E. WachsButterworth-Heineman, New York, 1992, Search PubMed .
M. T. Reetz Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2002, 41 , 1335 CrossRef CAS .
J. G. de Vries and A. H. M. de Vries , Eur. J. Org. Chem., 2003, 799 CrossRef CAS .
J. M. Newsam and F. Schuth , Biotechn. Bioeng., 1999, 61 , 203 Search PubMed .
T. L. Barr Modern Esca, the principles and practice of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy , CRC Press, Boca Raton, 1994, Search PubMed .
P. W. Goguen , T. Xu , D. H. Barich , T. W. Skloss , W. G. Song , Z. K. Wang and J. F. Haw , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1998, 120 , 2650 CrossRef CAS .
B. M. Weckhuysen Chem. Comm., 2002, 97 RSC .
B. M. Weckhuysen and R. A. Schoonheydt , Rev. Roum. Chim., 1999, 44 , 1047 Search PubMed .
J. M. Thomas Chem. Eur. J., 1997, 3 , 1557 CrossRef CAS .
J. M. Thomas Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 1999, 38 , 3589 CrossRef CAS .
J. M. Thomas , C. R. A. Catlow and G. Sankar , Chem. Comm., 2002, 2921 RSC .
H. Topsoe Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 2000, 130 , 1 CrossRef CAS .
H. Topsoe J. Catal., 2003, 216 , 155 CrossRef CAS .
M. Hunger and J. Weitkamp , Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2001, 40 , 2954 CrossRef CAS .
J. D. Grundwaldt , R. Wandeler and A. Baiker , Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng., 2003, 45 , 1 Search PubMed .
A. T. Bell Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 1995, 92 , 63 CrossRef CAS .
Top. Catal., eds. J. M. Thomas and G. A. Somorjai, 1999, 8, 1–140. Special issue with papers presented at the ACS National Meeting in Dallas (USA) in 1998.
Top. Catal., eds. R. Schlogl and A. Zecchina, 2001, 15, 1–82. Special issue with papers presented at the European Congress on Catalysis in Rimini (Italy).
In-situ Spectroscopy in Heterogeneous Catalysis , J. F. HawWiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2002, Search PubMed .
Operando spectroscopy is the shortened version of spectra of an operando or working catalyst or spectroscopy in modus operandi. The term operando can also be used for non-spectroscopic characterization techniques. The term has been coined by Miguel Banares, Eric Gaigneaux, Gerhard Mestl and Bert Weckhuysen
M. O. Guerrero-Perez and M. A. Banares , Chem. Comm., 2002, 1292 RSC .
M. A. Banares , M. O. Guerrero-Perez , L. J. G. Fierro and G. G. Cortez , J. Mater. Chem., 2002, 12 , 3337 RSC .
G. G. Cortez and M. A. Banares , J. Catal., 2002, 209 , 197 CrossRef CAS .
A. Bruckner Appl. Catal. A: General, 2003, 248 , N2 —N3 CrossRef CAS . I. E. Wachs CATTECH, 2003, 145 CrossRef CAS .
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., ed. B. M. Weckhuysen, 2003, 5, 4351. Special issue with papers presented at the International Congress on Operando Spectroscopy in Lunteren (The Netherlands).
V. I. Bukhtiyarav , M. Havecker , V. V. Kaichev , A. Knop-Gericke , R. W. Mayer and R. Schlogl , Phys. Rev. B, 2003, 67 , 2354 Search PubMed .
M. Havecker , R. W. Mayer , A. Knop-Gericke , H. Bluhm , E. Kleimenov , A. Liskowski , D. Su , R. Follath , F. G. Requejo , D. F. Ogletree , M. Salmeron , J. A. Lopez-Sanchez , J. P. Bartley , G. J. Hutchings and R. Schlogl , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2003, 107 , 4587 CrossRef CAS .
W. Weiss and R. Schlogl , Top. Catal., 2000, 13 , 75 CrossRef CAS .
M. Havecker , A. Knop-Gericke , T. Schedel-Niedrig and R. Schlogl , Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 1998, 37 , 1939 CrossRef CAS .
P. L. Gai Top. Catal., 2002, 21 , 161 CrossRef CAS .
T. W. Hansen , J. B. Wagner , P. L. Hansen , S. Dahl , H. Topsoe and C. J. H. Jacobsen , Science, 2001, 294 , 1508 CrossRef CAS .
P. L. Hansen , J. B. Wagner , S. Helveg , J. R. Rostrup-Nielsen , B. S. Clausen and H. Topsoe , Science, 2002, 295 , 2053 CrossRef CAS .
J. M. Thomas and O. Terasaki , Top. Catal., 2002, 21 , 155 CrossRef CAS .
F. Meneau , G. Sankar , N. Morgante , S. Cristol , C. R. A. Catlow , J. M. Thomas and G. N. Greaves , Nucl. Instr. Meth. Phys. Res. B, 2003, 199 , 499 CrossRef CAS .
T. P. St Clair and D. W. Goodman , Top. Catal., 2000, 13 , 5 CrossRef CAS .
D. W. Goodman J. Catal., 2003, 216 , 213 CrossRef CAS .
J. Find , Z. Paal , R. Schlogl and U. Wild , Catal. Lett., 2000, 65 , 19 CrossRef CAS .
G. A. Somorjai , K. R. McCrea and J. Zhu , Top. Catal., 2002, 18 , 157 CrossRef CAS .
G. A. Somorjai J. Phys. Chem. B, 2002, 106 , 9201 CrossRef CAS .
H. J. Freund , M. Baumer , J. Libuda , T. Risse , G. Rupprechter and S. Shaikhutdinov , J. Catal., 2003, 216 , 223 CrossRef CAS .
G. Rupprechter , H. Unterhalt , M. Morkel , P. Galletto , T. Dellwig and H. J. Freund , Vacuum, 2003, 71 , 83 CrossRef CAS .
In-Situ Characterization of Catalysts, ed. B. M. Weckhuysen, American Scientific Publishers, San Diego, 2003, in press.
J. M. Jehng , G. Deo , B. M. Weckhuysen and I. E. Wachs , J. Mol. Catal. A: Chemical, 1996, 110 , 41 CrossRef CAS .
B. S. Clausen , H. Topsoe and R. Frahm , Adv. Catal., 1998, 42 , 315 CrossRef CAS .
G. Sankar , J. M. Thomas and C. R. A. Catlow , Top. Catal., 2000, 10 , 255 CrossRef CAS .
G. Sankar and J. M. Thomas , Top. Catal., 1999, 8 , 1 CrossRef CAS .
J. D. Grunwaldt and B. S. Clausen , Top. Catal., 2002, 18 , 37 CrossRef CAS .
A. Bruckner Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng., 2003, 45 , 97 Search PubMed .
A. Bruckner Chem. Commun., 2001, 2122 RSC .
B. M. Weckhuysen , D. Baetens and R. A. Schoonheydt , Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2000, 39 , 3419 CrossRef CAS .
M. Tromp , J. R. A. Sietsma , J. A. van Bokhoven , G. P. F. van Strijdonck , R. J. van Haaren , A. M. J. van der Eerden , P. W. N. M. van Leeuwen and D. C. Koningsberger , Chem. Commun., 2003, 128 RSC .
T. A. Nijhuis , S. J. Tinnemans , T. Visser and B. M. Weckhuysen , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2003, 5 , DOI: 10.1039/b305786k RSC .
C.Nenu and B. M.Weckhuysen, unpublished results.
D. Ferri , T. Burgi and A. Baiker , J. Catal., 2002, 210 , 160 CrossRef CAS .
T. Burgi , R. Wirz and A. Baiker , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2003, 107 , 6774 CrossRef CAS .
P. C. Thune , J. Loos , D. Wouters , P. J. Lemstra and J. W. Niemantsverdriet , Macromol. Symp., 2001, 173 , 37 CrossRef CAS .
P. C. Thune , R. Linke , W. J. H. van Gennip , A. M. de Jong and J. W. Niemantsverdriet , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2001, 105 , 3073 CrossRef CAS .
P. C. Thune , J. Loos , P. J. Lemstra and J. W. Niemantsverdriet , J. Catal., 1999, 183 , 1 CrossRef CAS .
W. Gerhartz Ullmann's Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry , VCH Verlagsgesellschaft, Weinheim, 1986, Search PubMed .
P. Schmittinger Chlorine, Principles and Industrial Practice , Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2000, Search PubMed .
D. Bose and S. Senkan , Combust. Sci. Technol., 1983, 35 , 187 CrossRef CAS .
H. Valeirs , A. K. Gupta and S. Senkan , Combust. Sci. Technol., 1984, 36 , 123 CrossRef CAS .
P. Van der Avert and B. M. Weckhuysen , Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2002, 41 , 4730 CrossRef CAS .
B.Weckhuysen, R.Schoonheydt and P.Van der Avert, WO03057318A1 patent application.
P.Van der Avert, S. G.Podkolzin, O.Manoilova, H.de Winne and B. M.Weckhuysen, submitted for publication.
S. I. Boldish and W. B. White , Spectrochim. Acta, 1979, 35A , 1235 CrossRef CAS .
J. Holsa , K. Koski , S. Makkonen , E. Sailynoja and H. Rahiala , J. Alloys Compd., 1997, 249 , 217 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Hase and P. O. Dunstan , Spectrochim. Acta, 1981, 37A , 597 CrossRef CAS .
J. Holsa , J. Valkonen , E. Sailynoja and H. Rahiala , Polyhedron, 1997, 16 , 3421 CrossRef CAS .
D. Sanfilippo Cattech, 2000, 4 , 56 CrossRef CAS .
M. M. Bhasin , J. H. McCain , B. V. Vora , T. Imai and P. R. Pujado , Appl. Catal. A General, 2001, 221 , 397 CrossRef CAS .
B. M. Weckhuysen and R. A. Schoonheydt , Catal. Today, 1999, 51 , 223 CrossRef CAS .
B. M. Weckhuysen , I. E. Wachs and R. A. Schoonheydt , Chem. Rev., 1996, 96 , 3327 CrossRef CAS .
B. M. Weckhuysen , A. Bensalem and R. A. Schoonheydt , J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans., 1998, 94 , 2011 RSC .
B. M. Weckhuysen , A. A. Verberckmoes , J. Debaere , K. Ooms , I. Langhans and R. A. Schoonheydt , J. Mol. Catal. A: Chemical, 2000, 151 , 115 CrossRef CAS .
R. L. Puurunen , B. G. Beheydt and B. M. Weckhuysen , J. Catal., 2001, 204 , 253 CrossRef CAS .
R. L. Puurunen and B. M. Weckhuysen , J. Catal., 2002, 210 , 418 CrossRef CAS .
This journal is © the Owner Societies 2003
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
