<DOCUMENT>
Heterolytic Activation of C–H Bonds on CrIII–O Surface Sites Is a Key Step in Catalytic Polymerization of Ethylene and Dehydrogenation of Propane
Abstract
We describe the reactivity of well-defined chromium silicates toward ethylene and propane. The initial motivation for this study was to obtain a molecular understanding of the Phillips polymerization catalyst. The Phillips catalyst contains reduced chromium sites on silica and catalyzes the polymerization of ethylene without activators or a preformed Cr–C bond. CrII sites are commonly proposed active sites in this catalyst. We synthesized and characterized well-defined chromium(II) silicates and found that these materials, slightly contaminated with a minor amount of CrIII sites, have poor polymerization activity and few active sites. In contrast, chromium(III) silicates have 1 order of magnitude higher activity. The chromium(III) silicates initiate polymerization by the activation of a C–H bond of ethylene. Density functional theory analysis of this process showed that the C–H bond activation step is heterolytic and corresponds to a σ-bond metathesis type process. The same well-defined chromium(III) silicate catalyzes the dehydrogenation of propane at elevated temperatures with activities similar to those of a related industrial chromium-based catalyst. This reaction also involves a key heterolytic C–H bond activation step similar to that described for ethylene but with a significantly higher energy barrier. The higher energy barrier is consistent with the higher pKa of the C–H bond in propane compared to the C–H bond in ethylene. In both cases, the rate-determining step is the heterolytic C–H bond activation.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
SPECIAL ISSUE
This article is part of the Small Molecule Activation: From Biological Principles to Energy Applications special issue.
Synopsis
Ethylene polymerization and propane dehydrogenation reactions on chromium(III) silicates share the same key and rate-determining step: heterolytic C−H bond activation of the hydrocarbon substrate on CrIII−O sites through a four-center σ-bond metathesis type transition state. This step is endoergic, but when associated with ethylene insertion, it becomes a highly exoergic process, hence the low-temperature activity for polymerization in contrast to dehydrogenation, which is a highly endoergic process.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The activation of small molecules is a common theme in the petrochemical and commodity chemical industries. For example, the synthesis and upgrading of small molecules is central to the Haber–Bosch (N2/H2), Fischer–Tropsch (H2/CO), methane reforming (CH4/H2O/CO2), and methanol-to-olefin processes, to name but a few. (1) In addition to these examples, metathesis, oligomerization, and polymerization of olefins are also crucial industrial examples that in most cases rely on the conversion of small molecules (ethylene, propylene, etc.) to products (olefins, polymers, etc.). Traditionally, the low-molecular-weight olefins for these processes are synthesized by cracking techniques. However, the current abundance of low-molecular-weight alkanes in shale gas has caused a renewed interest in dehydrogenation processes for the production of olefins. The catalysts used industrially for the reactions mentioned above will vary from process to process, although they are exclusively heterogeneous because of the ease of separating the desired product from the reaction mixture and the ability of these catalysts to be easily regenerated.
Supported chromium species have a rich history in the activation of small molecules. Chromium-supported on silica was the first commercialized ethylene polymerization catalyst, (2) a discovery that predates the discovery of Ziegler–Natta polymerization by roughly 2 years. Related catalysts containing chromium on oxide supports are efficient dehydrogenation catalysts that can convert propane to propene and H2, (3) an increasingly important process run on industrial scales. (4) In this Forum Article, we will describe how these two catalytic processes are related by similar heterolytic C–H bond activation steps. We will first summarize the classical and well-defined chromium silicates for ethylene polymerization and then show through combined experimental and computational studies that the well-defined chromium species are also active in the dehydrogenation of propane.
The Phillips Catalyst: A Historical Perspective
In the early 1950s, Banks and Hogan, researchers at Phillips Petroleum, found that chromium oxides supported on silica (CrOx/SiO2) catalyzed the polymerization of ethylene in the absence of activators or cocatalysts to form high-density polyethylene (HDPE). (2, 5) The CrOx/SiO2 material, typically referred to as the Phillips catalyst, was the first commercialized HDPE catalyst and currently accounts for roughly half of global HDPE production per year.
The Phillips catalyst was discovered 2 years prior to Ziegler’s discovery of the TiCl4/Et2AlCl polymerization catalyst and well before the generally accepted mechanism for the polymerization of olefins catalyzed by homogeneous transition-metal complexes was established. (6) Extensive studies on homogeneous olefin polymerization catalysts led to the classical insertion mechanism shown in Scheme 1, a mechanism that probably also applies to the heterogeneous Ziegler–Natta catalyst. (7) An unsaturated metal alkyl A is formed by the treatment of a precatalyst with an alkylaluminum cocatalyst (8) or by activation with a Lewis acid. (9)A coordinates ethylene to form B and undergoes migratory insertion to form C. Repeating the coordination and insertion of ethylene propagates the polymer chain. Chain transfer or termination releases the polymer and regenerates A. (10) This general mechanism applies to a large family of catalysts based on early- and late-transition-metal metals, (6b, 11) which can be either homogeneous and heterogeneous. (12) This mechanism also applies to catalysts that selectively incorporate long-chain branches, (13) stereoselectively polymerize α-olefins, (14) and control the molecular weight distribution of the polymer. (11a) The Phillips catalyst polymerizes ethylene without an activator or a preformed Cr–C bond, a unique feature among all known olefin polymerization catalysts.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Migratory Insertion Mechanism for Transition-Metal-Catalyzed Olefin Polymerization
The Phillips catalyst is prepared by impregnating a silica support with aqueous solutions containing a chromium source, typically CrO3 or Cr(OAc)3, followed by a calcination step at high temperatures (>400 °C). At this stage, the surface species are chromate(VI) esters supported on the silica surface (Scheme 2). At low chromium loadings (<1% by weight), monomeric CrVI sites E are usually formed on the silica surface, (15) while dimeric and polymeric species can also be obtained at higher loadings. Polymerization of ethylene occurs when E is contacted with ethylene to form “reduced” chromium species that are the proposed active sites. Because the CrVI species must be reduced prior to polymerization initiation, there is a pronounced induction period for polymer formation when using CrOx/SiO2. Alternatively, E can be prereduced by carbon monoxide (CO) at 300 °C to produce a catalyst that polymerizes ethylene with a less pronounced induction period. (16)
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. (a) Reactivity of the Phillips Catalysta
Scheme a(a) The CrVI-containing silica material (E) is reduced by ethylene or by CO to form predominately CrII on silica (F). F is proposed to polymerize ethylene. (b) Proposed structures that initiate polymerization: chromacyclopentane species (G), chromium allyl hydride (H), chromium(IV) vinyl hydride (I), or chromium(IV) alkyidene (J).
Several leading reviews have shown the difficulty in determining the active site in the Phillips catalyst. (17) Despite these extensive efforts, the active site of the Phillips catalyst is unknown. A major challenge in determining the active site in this catalyst is the presence of only ca. 10% active chromium. (18) Early work by Baker and Carrick showed that ethylene reacts with chromium(VI) silicate to form aldehydes, ketones, and predominately CrII on the silica surface. (19) In agreement with this report, several spectroscopic studies show that CrII is the major oxidation state on the surface after treatment with CO. (20) In particular, Cr K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) has been used extensively to study the Phillips catalyst, which showed that isolated species assigned to F are the major surface chromium site. (21)
Several initiation species were proposed based on isolated CrII surface sites (F), which are summarized in Scheme 2b. The common theme in each of these proposals is two-electron oxidation of CrII sites to form CrIV organometallic intermediates. For example, oxidative coupling of two ethylene molecules would form the chromacyclopentane (G), which could insert ethylene by ring expansion. (22) Alternatively, G can undergo β-hydride elimination to form chromium allyl hydride (H), which can insert ethylene into the Cr–H bond to propagate the polymer. (5, 23) The CrII sites could also activate a C–H bond of ethylene by oxidative addition to form chromium(IV) vinyl hydride (I) (24) or coordinate ethylene and rearrange to chromium(IV) alkyidene (J). (25) Each of these intermediates could, in principle, polymerize ethylene either by a Cossee–Arlman insertion (26) (for H and I) or by a Rooney–Green mechanism (for J). (27)
Although monomeric CrII surface species are the most commonly proposed active site in the Phillips catalyst, the low quantity of active sites indicates that most of the spectroscopic data are probably related to inactive sites. Indeed, the debate concerning the active sites in the Phillips catalysts is still vigorous, and even the oxidation state of the active sites is controversial. For example, Lunsford et al. showed that chromium(III) salts supported on silica were competent polymerization catalysts. (28) Organometallic chromium(III) and chromium(IV) complexes supported on silica are also active in the polymerization of ethylene. (25a, 29) Although CrII is the predominant oxidation state in a CO-reduced Phillips catalyst, these latter studies indicate that higher oxidation state chromium sites are also competent ethylene polymerization catalyst precursors. The major challenge in determining the active site in the Phillips catalyst, and the formation of the first Cr–C bond, is obtaining a chromium silicate material with a high percentage of active sites, controlled chromium oxidation state, and a coordination environment.
Preparation of Well-Defined Cr/SiO2 Catalysts
Controlled functionalization of supports with molecular precursors can give well-defined chromium surface species, a general method referred to as surface organometallic chemistry. (12b, 30) Several well-defined chromium surface species have been prepared using this method, (25a, 29a, 31) in some cases with the goal to understand the active sites of the Phillips catalyst. (31) These studies produced catalysts that either already contained a M–C bond or led to chromium(VI) species after calcination, which must undergo the complicated reduction to low-valent chromium discussed above.
Using the thermolytic molecular precursor (TMP) approach developed by Tilley and co-workers. (31a, 31b, 32) we synthesized silica-supported materials containing “ligandless” chromium silicates with defined oxidation states and nuclearity. This approach involves grafting of a molecular precursor having −OSi(OtBu)3 ligands onto silica containing a known concentration of surface silanol groups, followed by thermal treatment of the grafted complex to eliminate the organic residues (isobutene and tBuOH). We synthesized a well-defined chromium(II) siloxide [Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]2]2 and grafted this complex on silica to form [(≡SiO)Cr2(OSi(OtBu)3)3], as shown in Scheme 3. In TMP, removal of the organic groups is generally accomplished by heating to high temperatures under air, an approach that led to numerous well-defined oxidation catalysts. (31a, 31b, 32a, 33) We desired materials that contained low-oxidation-state chromium. Conducting thermolysis of [(≡SiO)Cr2(OSi(OtBu)3)3] under vacuum resulted in the release of C4 organics, which forms [(≡SiO)4Cr2] and conserves the oxidation state and nuclearity of the molecular precursor. (34) In fact, the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) of [Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]2]2, [(≡SiO)Cr2(OSi(OtBu)3)3] and [(≡SiO)4Cr2] contain very similar features, indicating that each contains CrII, and the coordination environment is similar to that of the molecular complex in [(≡SiO)Cr2(OSi(OtBu)3)3] and [(≡SiO)4Cr2]. However, the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectrum of [(≡SiO)4Cr2] indicated the presence of traces of CrIII sites (several percent), presumably resulting from the adventitious oxidation CrII during thermolysis.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Reaction of [Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]2]2 with Silica Dehydroxylated at 700 °C (SiO2-(700)) To Form [(≡SiO)Cr2(OSi(OtBu)3)3] and Subsequent Thermal Treatment To Yield [(≡SiO)4Cr2]
[(≡SiO)4Cr2], containing mainly CrII sites, polymerizes ethylene with low activity. Poisoning experiments revealed that only 0.2 equiv of 4-methylpyridine shuts down all polymerization activity, indicating a low amount of active sites in this material. N2O is a known activator of a CO-reduced Phillips catalyst, (31d) which prompted us to investigate the activation of [(≡SiO)4Cr2] with N2O. This treatment resulted in a 1 order of magnitude increase in the initial polymerization rate compared to [(≡SiO)4Cr2], and a dramatic increase in the quantity of active sites (65% active sites according to quantitative poisoning experiments with 4-methylpyridine). The resulting polyethylene had a large dispersity Đ = Mw/Mn = 9.4 (with Mn = 5500 g mol–1 and Mw = 52000 g mol–1), which is typical for polymers produced with the Phillips catalyst.
In order to determine the structure of this active catalyst we treated the molecular [Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]2]2 complex with N2O, which resulted in isolation of the chromium(III) dimer K shown in Scheme 4. We determined the XAS signature of K [XANES and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS)] and [(≡SiO)4Cr2] treated with N2O and found remarkably similar spectral signatures. This result indicates that [(≡SiO)4Cr2] reacts with N2O to form the chromium(III) material [(≡SiO)6Cr2] shown in Scheme 4 and established that CrIII sites are active, while CrII sites display low, if any, polymerization activity.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. (a) Reaction of [(≡SiO)4Cr2] with N2O Giving the Chromium(III) Dinuclear Species [(≡SiO)6Cr2] and (b) Reaction of [Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]2]2 with N2O Giving K
The higher activity of dinuclear chromium(III) silicates than chromium(II) materials is consistent with numerous examples in homogeneous chemistry. (35) However, most studies of the Phillips catalyst suggest that monomeric chromium sites are active. (17b, 21) Using the TMP strategy, we synthesized the mononuclear chromium(III) surface species [(≡SiO)3Cr] from thermolysis of [(≡SiO)Cr(OSi(OtBu)3)2·THF], as shown in Scheme 5. The similar XANES of Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]3·2THF, [(≡SiO)Cr(OSi(OtBu)3)2·THF], and [(≡SiO)3Cr] indicates that the CrIII oxidation state is conserved during the grafting and thermolysis steps. (36)
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Preparation of [(≡SiO)3Cr] by Grafting Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]3·2THF onto SiO2-(700) and Subsequent Thermal Treatment
[(≡SiO)3Cr] polymerized ethylene to form linear polyethylene with rates and dispersities that are similar to those obtained for the [(≡SiO)6Cr2]-catalyzed polymerization of ethylene. Adsorption of CO on [(≡SiO)3Cr] gives two νCO stretches in the IR spectrum at 2202 and 2188 cm–1, which are blue-shifted with respect to free CO. According to labeling studies, these two νCO bands correspond to two different chromium surface sites and not to symmetric and antisymmetric vibrations. Consistent with the presence of different chromium sites in [(≡SiO)3Cr], roughly 60% of the CrIII surface sites in [(≡SiO)3Cr] are active in polymerization.
We turned to ab initio calculations in order to understand the structure of these different sites. We constructed the two cluster models shown in Figure 1. The first model 1a contains three Si–O groups coordinated to a CrIII ion, while the second model 1b incorporates an additional siloxane bridge coordinated to the metal center. The clusters contain six- and eight-membered siloxane rings that are typically observed in bulk silica. (37) We completed the silicon environments of both clusters with fluorine, a common approach when using cluster models for silica. (22b, 38)
Figure 1
Figure 1. Cluster models constructed to represent CrIII sites in silica and the corresponding CO adducts.
For all of the calculated stationary points discussed below, we found that the high-spin state (S = 3/2) is always more stable than the low-spin one (S = 1/2). We calibrated these models by studying the IR frequency of CO coordinated to chromium in 1a and 1b. The binding of up to three molecules of CO on 1a is exoergic (ΔG = −10.1 kcal mol–1). The corresponding νCOsymm and νCOasymm in 1a-3CO are blue-shifted by +53 and +46/+50 cm–1 with respect to free CO. In contrast, 1b only binds two molecules of CO (ΔG = −8.7 kcal mol–1), and the calculated CO vibrations are shifted by +58 and +55 cm–1 for the symmetric and antisymmetric modes. Overall, combined experimental [+45 cm–1 (major) and +59 cm–1 (minor)] and computed frequencies are consistent with the presence of a tricoordinate chromium(III) species as a major surface species, along with a minor species having the CrIII ion coordinated to an additional siloxane bridge. Consistent with these blue-shifted CO signatures, the chromium centers in both 1a and 1b carry a partial charge of 1.5+ from natural bond order analysis.
We also modeled the chromium sites using cluster models terminated with −OH groups, resulting in the cluster models 1a′ and 1b′ (Figure S1 in the Supporting Information, SI). The CO binding free energies for the carbonyl adducts in the −OH-terminated clusters are −5.4 and −4.6 kcal mol–1 for 1a′ and 1b′, respectively. The CO stretching bands are blue-shifted with respect to free CO by +42 and +37 cm–1 for the symmetric stretching mode and by +39/+36 and +34 cm–1 for the antisymmetric stretching mode for 1a′ and 1b′, respectively. These values are consistent with the experimental data.
Activation and Polymerization Mechanisms
Both [(≡SiO)6Cr2] and [(≡SiO)3Cr] still lack a Cr–C bond necessary to propagate polymerization. We proposed that ethylene reacts with a CrIII–O bond by a heterolytic C–H bond activation mechanism to form chromium vinyl and Si–(μ-OH)–Cr species based on combined experimental and computational studies (Scheme 6).
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Proposed Mechanism of Ethylene Polymerization Involving a Heterolytic Splitting of a C–H Bond across a Cr–O Bond as the Initiation Step
We showed that both [(≡SiO)6Cr2] and [(≡SiO)3Cr] polymerize ethylene without an induction period. In addition, poisoning studies with 4-methylpyridine revealed that most surface sites (ca. 65%) can initiate polymerization. The quantity of the active sites in these materials is significantly higher than that in the Phillips catalysts (<10%) and indicates that the active site can be detected by spectroscopic methods. The XANES of [(≡SiO)6Cr2] or [(≡SiO)3Cr] after exposure to ethylene contains a near-identical edge position relative to pristine [(≡SiO)6Cr2] or [(≡SiO)3Cr], indicating that the CrIII oxidation state is maintained. The polymer produced by either [(≡SiO)6Cr2] or [(≡SiO)3Cr] contains both olefinic and alkyl end groups according to NMR analysis.
We previously proposed that IR spectroscopy could be used to observe the formation of Si–(μ-OH)–Cr. The IR spectrum of [(≡SiO)6Cr2] and [(≡SiO)3Cr] contacted with ethylene contained strong C–H bands associated with polyethylene, a red-shifted SiOH band interacting with the polymer chain, (39) and signals near 3600 cm–1 previously assigned to the Si–(μ-OH)–Cr species. (31c, 36) The assignment of Si–(μ-OH)–Cr was based on similar IR signatures of related species in zeolitic materials. (40) However, the IR spectrum of polyethylene contains combination bands from C–H vibrations at the exact same frequency as that of the Si–(μ-OH)–Cr species. (41) This result indicates that the IR spectra of [(≡SiO)6Cr2] and [(≡SiO)3Cr] after contact with ethylene are dominated by these combination bands, making the unequivocal observation of Si–(μ-OH)–Cr species impossible even with deuterium-labeling experiments.
Using the cluster model of the isolated CrIII site 1a, we also investigated their reactivity toward ethylene. Calculations of the Gibbs free energies were carried out using standard conditions (25 °C and 1 atm). One or two molecules of ethylene can coordinate to 1a with favorable energies (see Figure 2). When one molecule of ethylene is coordinated to 1a to form 2, C–H bond activation occurs with an intrinsic barrier of 41.9 kcal mol–1. The transition state has the typical structural features associated with σ-bond metathesis, (42) with a wide O–H–Cethylene angle of about 144° and a C–H distance equal to 1.53 Å, consistent with the heterolytic splitting of a C–H bond in the reaction of 2 to 3. Coordinating two molecules of ethylene to 1a forms 4. In this case, the activation of a C–H bond of ethylene has a lower barrier of 36.6 kcal mol–1. The transition state for the C–H bond activation from 4 is qualitatively similar to that found for 2 with a wide O–H–Cethylene angle of 148° and a C–H distance equal to 1.48 Å, although in this case a second ethylene ligand is coordinated to the chromium center at 2.53 Å.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Activation of a C–H bond in ethylene by 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediates, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + ethylene. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Exchanging the F-termination in 1a by −OH groups does not noticeably change the energetics of ethylene C–H bond activation (Figure S3 in the SI).
We also investigated the reactivity of 1b toward ethylene. The presence of an additional siloxane bridge prevents the coordination of two ethylene molecules and yields a much higher C–H bond activation energy barrier (48.4 kcal mol–1) than that found for 1a. This result suggests that sites coordinating additional siloxane bridges are inactive in polymerization, which is consistent with the presence of 60% of active sites in [(≡SiO)3Cr].
We also investigated the species classically proposed in the Phillips catalyst shown in Scheme 2 using the tricoordinate chromium(III) model 1a. Each surface species in Scheme 2 requires two-electron oxidation at the chromium center, either oxidative coupling or oxidative C–H activation, which would lead to chromium(V) intermediates using 1a. Neither chromium vinyl hydride nor chromacycle could be located as stable minima. Optimization of the chromium vinyl hydride species from oxidative C–H activation gives the starting chromium ethylene adduct (2 in Figure 2). Attempts to optimize the chromacyclic structure of chromium(V) by the coupling of two ethylene molecules led to a chromium alkyl species, where the terminal CH2 group is about 2.7 Å away from the chromium center, indicating that there is no bond between chromium and that terminal carbon atom (Figure S4 in the SI). This intermediate is 29 kcal mol–1 less stable than separated reactants and therefore unlikely. The difficulty of finding stable chromium(V) species is not too surprising considering the positive redox potential for the reaction Cr5+ → Cr3+ (0.84 V vs NHE). (43) Therefore, neither chromium vinyl hydride nor chromacyclic species are likely intermediates in the polymerization of ethylene when chromium(III) species initiate polymerization. These results are also in agreement with the conservation of the 3+ oxidation state during polymerization, as observed by XANES.
Figure 3 shows the proposed catalytic cycle for the formation of an ethylene oligomer catalyzed by 1a. Two molecules of ethylene coordinate to 1a to form 4, one of which undergoes C–H bond activation to form 5. Species 5 contains a Cr–C bond and a coordinated ethylene that can undergo migratory insertion. After this first insertion, the formation of chromium butenyl (6) is only 1.8 kcal mol–1 above the initial reactants. Coordination of an ethylene molecule to 6 forms the π-coordinated species 7, which is almost thermoneutral with respect to 1a (+0.7 kcal mol–1). All successive ethylene insertions are exoergic by about 10 kcal mol–1 per inserted ethylene unit, and the intrinsic energy barriers for insertion of ethylene into chromium alkyl are low, ranging from 9.4 to 14.0 kcal mol–1. These energies are typical of M–R-catalyzed olefin insertion. (44) The most favorable pathway for chain termination corresponds to the proton transfer of Cr–(μ-OH)–Si to chromium alkyl, which is the microreverse of the initial C–H bond activation step on Cr–O sites. Other termination pathways such as direct chain transfer to monomer and β-hydride transfer have less unstable intermediates and/or higher energy barriers than proton transfer.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Ethylene polymerization mechanism by 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediate, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + ethylene. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Figure 4 shows the free-energy profile associated with initiation, polymer growth, and termination involving three ethylene insertions. The C–H bond activation of ethylene is the rate-determining step. The driving force for this reaction is the highly exoergic ethylene insertion reaction (ΔG ≈ −10 kcal mol–1) coupled with low barriers (ΔG⧧ ≈ 9–14 kcal mol–1 for each insertion). Proton transfer to terminate the polymer chains at each chromium alkyl intermediate (red profile in Figure 4) is associated with a higher transition state than insertion (ΔΔG⧧ = 12 kcal mol–1), consistent with polymer growth over termination.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Free-energy profile for the ethylene polymerization reaction by 1a. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyzed by Well-Defined Chromium(III) Silicates
The dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes and H2 (eq 1) is an increasingly important industrial process because of the current abundance of low-molecular-weight alkanes in shale gas. (45) Not surprisingly, this reaction is highly endoergic and requires high reaction temperatures. In industry, the catalysts are based on either supported PtSn or Cr/Al2O3. (4)
Two approaches are generally used to overcome the thermodynamic demands of this reaction, which depend on whether the catalyst is homogeneous or heterogeneous. Brookhart and Goldman have shown that homogeneous (PCP)Ir complexes dehydrogenate alkanes at moderate temperatures in the presence of olefin scavengers, either added to the reaction mixture or generated in situ. (46, 47) The heterogeneous CrIII/Al2O3 dehydrogenation catalyst operates at high temperatures to overcome the thermodynamic limitations of the reaction. CrIII/Al2O3 probably activates the C–H bond in propane by a heterolytic mechanism on a Cr–O site, forming chromium alkyl species, as shown in Scheme 7, which is supported by labeling and operando studies of the catalyst. (48) Chromium alkyl then undergoes β-hydride elimination to release the olefin. The high operating temperatures (>400 °C) allow for the direct liberation of H2, either by recombination of a Cr–H and a surface O–H to reform isolated CrIII sites or by σ-bond metathesis to regenerate chromium alkyl. (4, 48a) The C–H bond activation step proposed in dehydrogenation parallels the initiation step in ethylene polymerization on well-defined chromium silicates. This led us to investigate the propane dehydrogenation chemistry of [(≡SiO)3Cr].
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. Proposed Mechanism for Propane Dehydrogenation on CrIII/Al2O3
The reaction of [(≡SiO)3Cr] with propane in a continuous-flow reactor (10 mL min–1, 20% in argon, 1.5 bar) forms propene with 72% selectivity. Methane (14%), ethane (2%), and ethylene (11%) are the other products detected (Figures S5–S7 in the SI). Propene is produced with an initial turnover frequency (TOF) of 10.3 h–1 at 550 °C and steadily decreases over 2 h to a TOF of 2.8 h–1. The initial rate and steady decay of activity over time are also typical of classical CrIII/Al2O3 catalysts. (4) The activity of [(≡SiO)3Cr] in propane dehydrogenation is stable for 20 h after this initial rate decrease, corresponding to a turnover number of 46. All activities and output ratios can be viewed as an upper limit for the equilibrium conversion, where coking is not accounted for (a thermodynamic maximum of 65% of propene is formed at 550 °C in propane dehydrogenation).
Propane Dehydrogenation Pathways
Propane dehydrogenation and associated byproduct formation were also investigated by density functional theory (DFT) calculations using 1a as a model for the active sites. The free energies were calculated using the experimental conditions 550 °C and 1 atm. The most favorable dehydrogenation pathway catalyzed by 1a is shown in Figure 5. The formation of a chromium propane η3-H,H,H adduct 12 is highly endoergic, (49) with Cr–H distances between 2.44 and 2.55 Å and a Cr–C distance of 2.63 Å. The heterolytic activation of a C–H bond yields chromium(III) propyl intermediate 13, an endoergic step of about 17 kcal mol–1, associated with a rather high activation barrier of 57.0 kcal mol–1 with respect to the initial reactants (1a + propane). The transition state associated with the C–H bond activation step is again typical for a σ-bond metathesis step with a wide O–H–Cpropane angle of 150° and a C–H distance equal to 1.58 Å. (42)
Figure 5
Figure 5. Dehydrogenation of propane catalyzed by 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediates, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + propane. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
From the chromium(III) propyl intermediate, three pathways for dehydrogenation were investigated. The chromium propyl species 13 can undergo β-H elimination to form the chromium propene hydride surface species 14 (Figure 5). This step is characterized by a late transition state (50) containing a C–C distance of 1.38 Å, which is very close to that calculated for free propene (1.33 Å). Although 14 is 14.7 kcal mol–1 less stable than 13, the energy of the transition state from 13 to 14 (+50.7 kcal mol–1) is lower than the energy of the transition state from 13 to 12 (+57.0 kcal mol–1), indicating that the reaction can proceed via 14. The subsequent release of propene forms the chromium hydride species 15. This step is exergonic by 6.8 kcal mol–1. We could not locate the transition state associated with propene loss. The formation of H2 and completion of the catalytic cycle take place by proton transfer from 15 to form a dihydrogen adduct, Cr(H2) (16), a highly exergonic process by almost 20 kcal mol–1. The transition state is 53.1 kcal mol–1 above that of the initial reactants and displays the typical geometry for proton transfer by a σ-bond metathesis transition state with a wide O–H–H angle (137°) and a H–H distance equal to 1.15 Å.
Alternative pathways were also calculated (Scheme 8). Propane could undergo C–H bond activation at the methylene fragment, leading to 13′. This C–H bond activation is associated with a slightly lower energy transition state (+55.8 kcal mol–1) than the activation of the primary carbon, leading to 13 (57.0 kcal mol–1). The subsequent β-H transfer from 13′ has an energy profile similar to that of 13, showing that the rate of formation of propene by either pathway will be only marginally different (Scheme 8a). Other possible pathways that do not involve stepwise β-H transfer, olefin decoordination, and H2 release are energetically much less favored (Figure S8 in the SI). For example, coupling of the hydrogen atoms in 14 prior to propene release forms the Cr(H2)(olefin) species 17 and is associated with a high energy barrier (Scheme 8b). Another possibility would be the reaction of a propane molecule with 15 to re-form 13 by a σ-bond metathesis transition state (Scheme 8c). However, each process is associated with very high transition-state energies.
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Alternative Pathways for Dehydrogenation of Propane by (a) Dehydrogenation Pathway through the C–H Bond Activation of the Methylene of Propane, (b) Direct Coupling of the Hydrogen Atoms in 14, and (c) Regeneration of 13 by σ-Bond Metathesis
These results show that dehydrogenation occurs by β-H transfer, followed by decoordination of propene, recombination of Si–(μ-OH)–Cr and Cr–H, and release of H2. The overall thermodynamics for dehydrogenation of propane is calculated to be +4.5 kcal mol–1 at 550 °C, and the rate-determining step is the first C–H bond activation of propane.
Byproduct Formation Pathways
The formation of methane, ethane, and ethylene indicates that cracking processes also occur under experimental conditions. Cracking is associated with similar elementary steps described for dehydrogenation (Figures 6 and 7 and Scheme 9), with the only difference being cleavage of a C–C bond (β-alkyl transfer) in place of a C–H bond (β-H transfer). The catalytic cycle starts with 12 and the successive heterolytic activation of a C–H bond of propane, yielding 13. From 13, β-alkyl transfer forms the Cr(ethylene)(CH3) species 18, an endergonic process by 11.7 kcal mol–1 associated with a transition state of 60.3 kcal mol–1 above separated reactants. 18 releases ethylene to form 19 through an exergonic process of 18.8 kcal mol–1. Subsequent proton transfer from Si–(μ-OH)–Cr to Cr–CH3 in 19 forms the methane adduct 20 by a transition state that is 49.2 kcal mol–1 above separated reactants (1a and propane). Low barrier release of methane regenerates the initial catalyst (1a).
Figure 6
Figure 6. Byproduct formation for the reaction of propane with 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediate, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + propane. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Hydrogenation of ethylene by 1a to form ethane. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediate, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + propane. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Alternative Pathways for the Cracking of Propane by (a) β-Methyl Transfer Followed by Proton Transfer (b) Regeneration of 13 via σ-Bond Metathesis
We investigated alternative pathways to crack propane (Scheme 9), all of which are similar to the alternative pathways discussed for dehydrogenation of propane (Figure S9 in the SI). The transfer of a proton from Si–(μ-OH)–Cr to Cr–CH3 prior to ethylene decoordination (Scheme 9a) or σ-bond metathesis between propane and the Cr–CH3 species 19 (Scheme 9b) is associated with much higher energies than β-Me transfer.
The catalytic cycle for producing methane and ethylene is thermodynamically favored by −6.6 kcal mol–1. However, β-alkyl transfer presents a slightly higher overall energy barrier than the C–H bond activation step (60.3 vs 57.0 kcal mol–1), suggesting that this step is rate-limiting in cracking. This is in contrast to the dehydrogenation reaction, where the C–H bond activation is rate-limiting.
The formation of ethane can proceed by two pathways, with the most favorable one shown in Figure 7; a more complete set of possibilities can be found in the SI (Figure S10). The coordination of ethylene generated from the cracking of propane to 15 forms the π-coordinated species 22, which inserts ethylene to form the chromium ethyl complex 23. As expected, the insertion of ethylene into Cr–H is highly exergonic by 14.2 kcal mol–1. Proton transfer from 23 forms ethane and regenerates 1a. The associated transition states for ethylene insertion and proton transfer are 48.2 and 53.4 kcal mol–1 above separated reactants. Alternatively, ethane can be formed by the direct reaction of ethylene and 13 (Figure S10 in the SI). However, this pathway is associated with higher energy intermediates and higher energy barriers than those of the hydrogenation sequence.
Activation of CH4 and H2
Contacting [(≡SiO)3Cr] with either H2 or CH4 at 150 °C does not result in the detection of reaction intermediates (chromium alkyl or hydride) by IR spectroscopy under the explored conditions. Consistent with this observation, the reaction of H2 and CH4 on CrIII sites was calculated to be endergonic by 19.9 and 17.5 kcal mol–1, respectively. The intrinsic barrier to activate H2 is 32.9 kcal mol–1, while the analogous barrier to activate CH4 is 40.6 kcal mol–1. However, if a sufficient thermodynamic driving force is present, the activation of H2 is possible. The hydrogenation of ethylene [(≡SiO)3Cr] occurs readily at 70 °C with a 1:1 mixture of ethylene and H2, consistent with the formation of hydride intermediates.
Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The Phillips catalyst is an important industrial catalyst for the production of HDPE. Since the discovery of the Phillips catalyst in 1951, the catalytically active site has been controversial. Counter to several proposals inferring CrII active sites, we found that well-defined CrIII sites are active while CrII sites have poor to no activity. This finding is in agreement with several reports in homogeneous catalysis showing that chromium(III) alkyls are active in the polymerization of ethylene. (35)
The well-defined chromium(III) silicates do not contain a preformed Cr–C bond that is required for olefin polymerization. A mechanism consistent with the NMR of the polymer and XAS data is the heterolytic activation of a C–H bond in ethylene to form a chromium vinyl species that can coordinate and insert ethylene. DFT calculations are in agreement with this proposal and indicate that tricoordinate chromium(III) species are the active sites. Including additional interaction between the CrIII site and an adjacent siloxane bridge in our model leads to significantly higher C–H bond activation barriers, suggesting that these sites are inactive in polymerization. The activation of a C–H bond in ethylene is endoergic and rate-limiting, but coupling with the highly exergonic ethylene insertion steps makes the chromium system an active polymerization catalyst. This proposal parallels what was found for the activation of C–H bonds of methane on γ-alumina, (51) in which tricoordinate AlIII–O sites react with methane through a heterolytic C–H bond activation step. One major difference is that the C–H bond activation step is exoergic on AlIII–O sites and endothermic on CrIII–O sites, which leads to observable M–CH3 surface species on γ-alumina and not on the silica-supported Cr species.
[(≡SiO)3Cr] also catalyzes the dehydrogenation of propane with 72% selectivity for propene at 550 °C; the byproducts are methane, ethane, and ethylene. DFT analysis shows that the rate-determining step for dehydrogenation is also the C–H bond activation of propane on a Cr–O site (Figure 8). The transitions states for β-H- and proton-transfer steps generating propene and H2 and regenerating 1a are lower in energy than the microreverse of C–H bond activation. The overall reaction is slightly endergonic at 550 °C according to calculation by +4.5 kcal mol–1.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Most favorable free-energy pathways for dehydrogenation (in green) and cracking (in blue) of propane by 1a. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
In contrast, the thermodynamics for the formation of methane and ethylene byproducts from propane are actually much more favorable (−6.6 kcal mol–1). However, the key step determining selectivity is the β-X transfer step (X = H, CH3), which is more favored for dehydrogenation (X = H) than for cracking (X = CH3) by 9.6 kcal mol–1. These results indicate that C–H bond activation is rate-determining in propane dehydrogenation, while β-methyl transfer is likely rate-limiting for the cracking of propane. However, β-methyl transfer can compete with the initial C–H bond activation of propane because the overall energetic difference between the two transition states is ca. 3 kcal mol–1. This difference is small and indicates that the two processes are competitive, in agreement with the detection of both dehydrogenation and cracking products in the gas phase under experimental conditions.
The activation of an H–X bond (X = H, CH3, C2H3, C3H7) is endoergic in all cases explored here. With the calculated transition states, we can now compare the activation step for each substrate. Figure 9 shows the transition states for the activation of C3H8, CH4, C2H4, and H2 and gives their energy compared to separated reactants under standard conditions (25 °C and 1 atm). The barriers of the H–X bond activation step decrease in the order propane ≈ methane > ethylene ≈ H2. The transition-state structures for the activation processes of all of these substrates are remarkably similar. All of the transition-state structures contain wide O–H–X angles ranging from 137° to 150° and a H–X distance ranging between 1.15 and 1.55 Å. The lowest values are for H2 and ethylene, while the values for saturated hydrocarbons are very similar. In all cases, a formal four-center σ-bond metathesis transition state, consistent with the heterolytic cleavage of the H–X bond, was obtained. (42, 51c, 52) Analysis of the partial charges in these transition-state structures indicates that the chromium ion and the activated C–H bond carry partial positive charges (atoms in blue), while the oxygen acceptor of the proton and the “X” group carry a partial negative charge (atoms in red). The easier activation of Csp2–H over Csp3–H bonds can be related to the difference of pKa values and the gas-phase acidities of these substrates (ΔHr°), which is also consistent with a heterolytic activation process. (51c, 52c) The slightly disfavored H2 activation on CrIII–O sites in comparison to ethylene is likely due to the shorter H–H versus C–H bond.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Transition-state structures for the X–H bond activation in C3H8, CH4, C2H4, and H2. The enthalpic transition-state energy [H(TS)] at 298 K and 1 atm (in kcal mol–1, calculated with respect to separated reactants with the BS1 basis set and no dispersion correction) for the activation of the X–H bond, the pKa value, and the gas-phase acidities (ΔHr°, in kcal·mol–1) for all substrates are given below the structures.
Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The initial motivation of this endeavor was to obtain a molecular understanding of the active sites in the Phillips catalyst. Although numerous studies conclude that isolated CrII sites are active in olefin polymerization, we found that well-defined dinuclear chromium(II) silicates have, at best, poor activity. In contrast, well-defined CrIII sites are active. The heterolytic C–H bond activation of ethylene forms the first Cr–C bond in these well-defined CrIII-containing materials, as well as for the CO-reduced Phillips catalyst. The C–H bond activation step is rate-determining and follows a σ-bond-metathesis-type transition state. The microreverse of the C–H bond activation (chain transfer) has a higher barrier than the insertion of ethylene into a chromium alkyl, which leads to polymer growth.
The chromium(III) silicates also catalyze the dehydrogenation of propane to form propene and H2 at 550 °C with rates that are similar to the industrial catalysts. Dehydrogenation also occurs by the C–H bond activation of propane on a Cr–O bond. The transition state also has σ-bond metathesis character and structural similarity to that obtained for the C–H bond activation of ethylene. The calculated barrier to heterolytic activation of the C–H bond of propane is much higher than that found for ethylene, consistent with the higher pKa value for the C–H bond of propane, as expected for a heterolytic C–H bond activation process.
These studies establish that silica-supported CrIII sites can activate C–H bonds of small hydrocarbons by a σ-bond metathesis mechanism. The highly reactive intermediates generated by C–H bond activation lead to subsequent catalytic reactivity in polymerization or dehydrogenation. We expect that the heterolytic C–H bond activation encountered in these studies is general and will lead to new materials capable of activating small molecules by similar or related mechanisms. We are currently exploring this possibility.
Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
General Considerations
All manipulations were performed under an inert gas atmosphere using Schlenk (argon), glovebox (argon), or high-vacuum (10–5 mbar) techniques. O2 and water were removed from all gases (propane, ethylene, methane, and H2) by passing them through a copper catalyst (R3-11, BASF) and activated 4 Å molecular sieves before use. IR spectra were recorded in transmission mode on a Nicolet 6700 FT-IR spectrophotometer. Catalytic experiments under gas-flow conditions were performed in a flow reactor made of stainless steel SS316 (diameter 1.4 cm) surrounded by an oven connected via a thermocouple reaching into the catalyst mixed with SiC (2.5 g). The synthesis of [(≡SiO)6Cr2] and [(≡SiO)3Cr] and experimental details for the polymerization of ethylene using these materials were described previously. (31c, 36)
Propane Dehydrogenation Using [(≡SiO)3Cr]
[(≡SiO)3Cr] (60 mg, 0.011 mmol of chromium) was mixed with SiC (2.5 g) and placed in a flow reactor. Argon was flowed through the reactor (10 mL min–1), while the reactor was heated to 550 °C. At this temperature, a mixture of propane and argon (10 mL min–1; 1:4 propane/argon; gas hourly space velocity = 353 h–1) was passed through the reactor, and the output gases were monitored by gas chromatography with a flame ionization detector (FID-GC) for 20 h.
Reactivity of [(≡SiO)3Cr] toward Propane
A disk of [(≡SiO)3Cr] (30 mg, 0.006 mmol of chromium) was contacted with propane (150 mbar, 310 equiv per chromium) at room temperature for 30 min, then at 100 °C for 30 min, then at 150 °C for 30 min, then at 300 °C for 30 min, then at 400 °C for 5 h, and then at 500 °C for 14 h. The reaction was monitored by IR transmission; after heating at each temperature, two IR spectra were collected with and without condensation of the gas phase. After the experiment, FID-GC of the gas phase was performed, which apart from propane showed methane (0.02 mmol, 3.2 equiv per chromium), ethane (0.01 mmol, 1.5 equiv per chromium), ethylene (0.01 mmol, 1.2 equiv per chromium), and propylene (0.10 mmol, 15.4 equiv per chromium). The gas phase was then evacuated under high vacuum (10–5 mbar) for 1 h, and another IR spectrum was recorded.
Reactivity of [(≡SiO)3Cr] toward CH4 Monitored by IR Spectroscopy
A disk of [(≡SiO)3Cr] (30 mg, 0.006 mmol of chromium) was contacted with methane (150 mbar, 320 equiv per chromium) at room temperature for 1 h, then at 100 °C for 1 h, and then at 150 °C for 1 h and monitored by IR transmission spectrometry after heating at each temperature. The gas phase was evacuated under high vacuum (10–5 mbar) for 1 h, and another IR spectrum was recorded.
Reactivity of [(≡SiO)3Cr] toward H2
A disk of [(≡SiO)3Cr] (30 mg, 0.006 mmol of chromium) was contacted with H2 (150 mbar, 320 equiv per chromium) at room temperature for 1 h, then at 100 °C for 1 h, and then at 150 °C for 1 h and monitored by IR transmission spectrometry after heating at each temperature. The gas phase was evacuated under high vacuum (10–5 mbar) for 1 h, and another IR spectrum was recorded.
Hydrogenation of Ethylene with [(≡SiO)3Cr] Using H2
[(≡SiO)3Cr] on a Grace Sylopol 948 (40 mg, 0.012 mmol of chromium) was preheated at 70 °C and then contacted with a 1:1 mixture of H2/C2H4 (650 mbar, 680 equiv of H2/C2H4 mixture per chromium) for 5 h. The gas phase was monitored and analyzed by IR and FID-GC and GC–mass spectrometry. After 4 h, the gas phase contained, apart from ethylene and H2, ethane (11 equiv per chromium) and traces of butane (0.085 equiv per chromium) and hexane (0.022 equiv per chromium). After the experiment, the surface was characterized via IR and 1H and 13C NMR, which evidenced the formation of polyethylene on the surface.
Computational Details
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The theoretical calculations were carried out at the DFT level with the B3LYP hybrid density functional, (53) as implemented in the Gaussian 09 suite of programs. (54) All considered reaction pathways were calculated with the high-spin configuration of the CrIII d3 ion (S = 3/2) because the doublet is much higher in energy and no spin crossing was detected in the potential energy surface exploration. Geometries were obtained through a combination of basis sets (BS1): the LanL2DZ (55) effective core potential of Hay and Wadt for chromium and the 6-311G(d,p) (56) basis set for all other atoms. The nature of all stationary points along the potential energy surfaces was confirmed by computation of the Hessian matrix, obtaining no imaginary frequencies for minima and only one for transition-state structures. Intrinsic reaction coordinate calculations were carried out in the C–H bond activation steps to ensure that the transition states connect properly with the reactants and products. Gas-phase thermal corrections were calculated at standard conditions (25 °C and 1 atm) for the ethylene polymerization reaction and at 550 °C and 1 atm for the propane dehydrogenation reaction, including the formation of byproducts. These calculations allow us to obtain entropic contributions in the reaction pathways. Electronic energies were refined with extended basis sets (BS2): LanL2TZ(f) (55a, 57) for chromium and 6-311++G(d,p) (56, 58) for all other atoms. Additionally, Grimme’s D3 dispersion corrections (59) with Becke and Johnson damping (60) were added to the final energies.
Supporting Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Listings of selectivity, activity, and conversion data for propane dehydrogenation and further DFT calculations. This material is available free of charge via the Internet at http://pubs.acs.org.
ic502696n_si_001.pdf (459.85 kb)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system: http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Christophe Copéret - Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, ETH Zürich, Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1−5, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland;  Email: ccoperet@ethz.ch
Authors
Matthew P. Conley - Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, ETH Zürich, Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1−5, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland
Murielle F. Delley - Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, ETH Zürich, Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1−5, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland
Francisco Núñez-Zarur - Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, ETH Zürich, Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1−5, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland
Aleix Comas-Vives - Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, ETH Zürich, Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1−5, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgment
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
M.F.D. thanks ETH Zürich and the Scholarship Fund of the Swiss Chemical Industry for financial support. A.C.-V. acknowledges support from the Swiss National Foundation (Grant PZ00P2_148059).
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 60 other publications.
1(a) Lloyd, L. Handbook of Industrial Catalysts; Springer: Berlin, 2011.[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) Bartholomew, C. H. F.; Robert, J. Fundamentals of Industrial Catalytic Processes, 2nd ed.; John Wiley & Sons, Inc.: New York, 2006.Google Scholar
2McDaniel, M. P. A Review of the Phillips Supported Chromium Catalyst and Its Commercial Use for Ethylene Polymerization. In Advances in Catalysis; Bruce, C. G., Helmut, K., Eds.; Academic Press: New York, 2010; Chapter 3.[Crossref], Google Scholar
3Resasco, D. E. Dehydrogenation–Heterogeneous. In Encyclopedia of Catalysis; John Wiley & Sons, Inc.: New York, 2002.Google Scholar
4Sattler, J. J. H. B.; Ruiz-Martinez, J.; Santillan-Jimenez, E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Chem. Rev. 2014, 114, 10613– 10653[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
5McDaniel, M. P. Supported Chromium Catalysts for Ethylene Polymerization. In Advances in Catalysis; Eley, H. P. D. D.; Paul, B. W., Eds.; Academic Press: New York, 1985.[Crossref], Google Scholar
6(a) Rappé, A. K.; Skiff, W. M.; Casewit, C. J. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100, 1435– 1456[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Ittel, S. D.; Johnson, L. K.; Brookhart, M. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100, 1169– 1204[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
7Corradini, P.; Guerra, G.; Cavallo, L. Acc. Chem. Res. 2004, 37, 231– 241[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
8Kaminsky, W. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 1998, 1413– 1418[Crossref], Google Scholar
9Chen, E. Y.-X.; Marks, T. J. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100, 1391– 1434[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
10Amin, S. B.; Marks, T. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 2006– 2025[Crossref], Google Scholar
11(a) Coates, G. W.; Hustad, P. D.; Reinartz, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2002, 41, 2236– 2257[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) Nakamura, A.; Anselment, T. M. J.; Claverie, J.; Goodall, B.; Jordan, R. F.; Mecking, S.; Rieger, B.; Sen, A.; van Leeuwen, P. W. N. M.; Nozaki, K. Acc. Chem. Res. 2013, 46, 1438– 1449[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
12(a) Marks, T. J. Acc. Chem. Res. 1992, 25, 57– 65[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Wegener, S. L.; Marks, T. J.; Stair, P. C. Acc. Chem. Res. 2011, 45, 206– 214[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(c) Nicholas, C. P.; Ahn, H.; Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 4325– 4331[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(d) Jezequel, M.; Dufaud, V.; Ruiz-Garcia, M. J.; Carrillo-Hermosilla, F.; Neugebauer, U.; Niccolai, G. P.; Lefebvre, F.; Bayard, F.; Corker, J.; Fiddy, S.; Evans, J.; Broyer, J.-P.; Malinge, J.; Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 3520– 3540[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(e) Joubert, J.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Roux, E. L.; Taoufik, M.; Thieuleux, C.; Blanc, F.; Copéret, C.; Thivolle-Cazat, J.; Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 9157– 9169[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
13Braunschweig, H.; Breitling, F. M. Coord. Chem. Rev. 2006, 250, 2691– 2720[Crossref], Google Scholar
14Coates, G. W. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100, 1223– 1252[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
15McDaniel, M. P.; Collins, K. S.; Benham, E. A. J. Catal. 2007, 252, 281– 295[Crossref], Google Scholar
16Zecchina, A.; Garrone, E.; Ghiotti, G.; Morterra, C.; Borello, E. J. Phys. Chem. 1975, 79, 966– 972[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
17(a) Weckhuysen, B. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 215– 221[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Groppo, E.; Lamberti, C.; Bordiga, S.; Spoto, G.; Zecchina, A. Chem. Rev. 2005, 105, 115– 184[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
18McDaniel, M. P.; Martin, S. J. J. Phys. Chem. 1991, 95, 3289– 3293[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
19Baker, L. M.; Carrick, W. L. J. Org. Chem. 1968, 33, 616– 618[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
20(a) Weckhuysen, B. M.; Wachs, I. E.; Schoonheydt, R. A. Chem. Rev. 1996, 96, 3327– 3350[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Chakrabarti, A.; Wachs, I. E. Catal. Lett. 2014, 144, 1– 10[Crossref], Google Scholar
21Bordiga, S.; Groppo, E.; Agostini, G.; van Bokhoven, J. A.; Lamberti, C. Chem. Rev. 2013, 113, 1736– 1850[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
22(a) Rebenstorf, B.; Larsson, R. J. Mol. Catal. 1981, 11, 247– 256[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Espelid, O.; Borve, K. J. J. Catal. 2002, 206, 331– 338[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Groppo, E.; Lamberti, C.; Bordiga, S.; Spoto, G.; Zecchina, A. J. Catal. 2006, 240, 172– 181[Crossref], Google Scholar
23Ruddick, V. J.; Badyal, J. P. S. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102, 2991– 2994[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
24Cheng, R.; Liu, Z.; Zhong, L.; He, X.; Qiu, P.; Terano, M.; Eisen, M.; Scott, S.; Liu, B. Phillips Cr/Silica Catalyst for Ethylene Polymerization. In Polyolefins: 50 years after Ziegler and Natta I; Kaminsky, W., Ed.; Springer: Berlin, 2013.[Crossref], Google Scholar
25(a) Amor Nait Ajjou, J.; Scott, S. L.; Paquet, V. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 415– 416[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Ghiotti, G.; Garrone, E.; Zecchina, A. J. Mol. Catal. 1988, 46, 61– 77[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(c) Rebenstorf, B. J. Mol. Catal. 1988, 45, 263– 274[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(d) Liu, B.; Nakatani, H.; Terano, M. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2003, 201, 189– 197[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(e) Amor Nait Ajjou, J.; Scott, S. L. Organometallics 1997, 16, 86– 92[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(f) Ghiotti, G.; Garrone, E.; Coluccia, S.; Morterra, C.; Zecchina, A. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1979, 1032– 1033[Crossref], Google Scholar
26(a) Cossee, P. J. Catal. 1964, 3, 80– 88[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Arlman, E. J. J. Catal. 1964, 3, 89– 98[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Arlman, E. J.; Cossee, P. J. Catal. 1964, 3, 99– 104[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
27Ivin, K. J.; Rooney, J. J.; Stewart, C. D.; Green, M. L. H.; Mahtab, R. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1978, 604– 606[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
28(a) Przhevalskaya, L. K.; Shvets, V. A.; Kazansky, V. B. J. Catal. 1975, 39, 363– 368[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) Myers, D. L.; Lunsford, J. H. J. Catal. 1986, 99, 140– 148[Crossref], Google Scholar
29(a) Amor Nait Ajjou, J.; Scott, S. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 8968– 8976[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Ikeda, H.; Monoi, T.; Sasaki, Y. J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem. 2003, 41, 413– 419[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(c) Monoi, T.; Haruhiko, H. I.; Hiroyuki, O.; Yasuaki, S. Polym. J. 2002, 34, 461– 465[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(d) Takashi, M.; Haruhiko, I.; Yasuaki, S.; Yasumichi, M. Polym. J. 2003, 35, 608– 611[Crossref], Google Scholar
30(a) Copéret, C.; Chabanas, M.; Petroff Saint-Arroman, R.; Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2003, 42, 156– 181[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) Tada, M.; Iwasawa, Y. Coord. Chem. Rev. 2007, 251, 2702– 2716[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Thomas, J. M.; Raja, R.; Lewis, D. W. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 6456– 6482[Crossref], Google Scholar
31(a) Fujdala, K. L.; Tilley, T. D. J. Catal. 2003, 216, 265– 275[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Fujdala, K.; Brutchey, R.; Tilley, T. D. Tailored Oxide Materials via Thermolytic Molecular Precursor (TMP) Methods. In Surface and Interfacial Organometallic Chemistry and Catalysis; Copéret, C.; Chaudret, B., Eds.; Springer: Berlin, 2005.[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Conley, M. P.; Delley, M. F.; Siddiqi, G.; Lapadula, G.; Norsic, S.; Monteil, V.; Safonova, O. V.; Coperet, C. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 1872– 1876[Crossref], Google Scholar
(d) Groppo, E.; Damin, A.; Otero Arean, C.; Zecchina, A. Chem.—Eur. J. 2011, 17, 11110– 11114[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
32(a) Coles, M. P.; Lugmair, C. G.; Terry, K. W.; Tilley, T. D. Chem. Mater. 2000, 12, 122– 131[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Terry, K. W.; Gantzel, P. K.; Tilley, T. D. Inorg. Chem. 1993, 32, 5402– 5404[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(c) Terry, K. W.; Lugmair, C. G.; Tilley, T. D. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 9745– 9756[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
33Fujdala, K. L.; Tilley, T. D. Chem. Mater. 2001, 13, 1817– 1827[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
34Conley, M.; Copéret, C. Top. Catal. 2014, 57, 843– 851[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
35(a) Theopold, K. H. Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 1998, 1998, 15– 24[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) MacAdams, L. A.; Buffone, G. P.; Incarvito, C. D.; Rheingold, A. L.; Theopold, K. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 1082– 1083[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(c) Thomas, B. J.; Noh, S. K.; Schulte, G. K.; Sendlinger, S. C.; Theopold, K. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1991, 113, 893– 902[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
36Delley, M. F.; Nunez-Zarur, F.; Conley, M. P.; Comas-Vives, A.; Siddiqi, G.; Norsic, S.; Monteil, V.; Safonova, O. V.; Coperet, C. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 2014, 111, 11624– 11629[Crossref], Google Scholar
37(a) Stallons, J. M.; Iglesia, E. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2001, 56, 4205– 4216[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Zhuravlev, L. T. Colloid Surf. A 2000, 173, 1– 38[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
38(a) Espelid, O.; Borve, K. J. J. Catal. 2000, 195, 125– 139[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) Espelid, O.; Borve, K. J. Catal. Lett. 2001, 75, 49– 54[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Espelid, O.; Borve, K. J. J. Catal. 2002, 205, 177– 190[Crossref], Google Scholar
(d) Espelid, O.; Borve, K. J. J. Catal. 2002, 205, 366– 374[Crossref], Google Scholar
39van der Meer, J.; Bardez-Giboire, I.; Mercier, C.; Revel, B.; Davidson, A.; Denoyel, R. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 3507– 3515[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
40(a) Dzwigaj, S.; Shishido, T. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 5803– 5809[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Hadjiivanov, K.; Penkova, A.; Kefirov, R.; Dzwigaj, S.; Che, M. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2009, 124, 59– 69[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Tielens, F.; Islam, M. M.; Skara, G.; De Proft, F.; Shishido, T.; Dzwigaj, S. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2012, 159, 66– 73[Crossref], Google Scholar
(d) Cappus, D.; Xu, C.; Ehrlich, D.; Dillmann, B.; Ventrice, C. A., Jr.; Al Shamery, K.; Kuhlenbeck, H.; Freund, H. J. Chem. Phys. 1993, 177, 533– 546[Crossref], Google Scholar
41We thank a reviewer of this manuscript for directing us to literature data containing the FTIR spectrum of HDPE. The FTIR spectrum of HDPE synthesized in these studies is given in the SI (Figure S2).
42(a) Balcells, D.; Clot, E.; Eisenstein, O. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 749– 823[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Waterman, R. Organometallics 2013, 32, 7249– 7263[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
43Bose, R. N.; Fonkeng, B.; Barr-David, G.; Farrell, R. P.; Judd, R. J.; Lay, P. A.; Sangster, D. F. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 7139– 7144[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
44Niu, S. Q.; Hall, M. B. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100, 353– 405[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
45Malakoff, D. Science 2014, 344, 1464– 1467[Crossref], Google Scholar
46(a) Haibach, M. C.; Kundu, S.; Brookhart, M.; Goldman, A. S. Acc. Chem. Res. 2012, 45, 947– 958[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Choi, J.; MacArthur, A. H. R.; Brookhart, M.; Goldman, A. S. Chem. Rev. 2011, 111, 1761– 1779[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
47(a) Eisenstein, O.; Crabtree, R. H. New J. Chem. 2001, 25, 665– 666[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) Baudry, D.; Ephritikhine, M.; Felkin, H. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1982, 606– 607[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(c) Baudry, D.; Ephritikhine, M.; Felkin, H. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1980, 1243– 1244[Crossref], Google Scholar
(d) Gupta, M.; Hagen, C.; Kaska, W. C.; Cramer, R. E.; Jensen, C. M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 840– 841[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(e) Belli, J.; Jensen, C. M. Organometallics 1996, 15, 1532– 1534[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
48(a) Weckhuysen, B. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 223– 232[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Coperet, C. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 656– 680[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(c) Olsbye, U.; Virnovskaia, A.; Prytz, Ø.; Tinnemans, S.; Weckhuysen, B. Catal. Lett. 2005, 103, 143– 148[Crossref], Google Scholar
(d) Weckhuysen, B. M.; Bensalem, A.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1998, 94, 2011– 2014[Crossref], Google Scholar
(e) Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 4351– 4360[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(f) For related C−H bond activation on M−O sites, see:Hu, B.; Getsoian, A.; Schweitzer, N. M.; Das, U.; Kim, H. S.; Niklas, J.; Poluektov, O.; Curtiss, L. A.; Stair, P. C.; Miller, J. T.; Hock, A. S. J. Catal. 2014, 322, 24– 37[Crossref], Google Scholar
49Siegbahn, P. E. M.; Svensson, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 10124– 10128[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
50Siegbahn, P. E. M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993, 115, 5803– 5812[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
51(a) Joubert, J.; Salameh, A.; Krakoviack, V.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Copéret, C.; Basset, J. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 23944– 23950[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
(b) Wischert, R.; Copéret, C.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 3202– 3205[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Wischert, R.; Laurent, P.; Coperet, C.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 14430– 14449[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
52(a) Maron, L.; Perrin, L.; Eisenstein, O. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 2002, 534– 539[Crossref], Google Scholar
(b) Coperet, C.; Grouiller, A.; Basset, J. M.; Chermette, H. ChemPhysChem 2003, 4, 608– 611[Crossref], Google Scholar
(c) Werkema, E. L.; Maron, L.; Eisenstein, O.; Andersen, R. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 6662– 6662[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
53(a) Stephens, P. J.; Devlin, F. J.; Chabalowski, C. F.; Frisch, M. J. J. Phys. Chem. 1994, 98, 11623– 11627[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Miehlich, B.; Savin, A.; Stoll, H.; Preuss, H. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1989, 157, 200– 206[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(c) Lee, C. T.; Yang, W. T.; Parr, R. G. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter 1988, 37, 785– 789[Crossref], Google Scholar
(d) Becke, A. D. J. Chem. Phys. 1993, 98, 5648– 5652[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(e) Vosko, S. H.; Wilk, L.; Nusair, M. Can. J. Phys. 1980, 58, 1200– 1211[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
54Frisch, M. J.; Trucks, G. W.; Schlegel, H. B.; Scuseria, G. E.; Robb, M. A.; Cheeseman, J. R.; Scalmani, G.; Barone, V.; Mennucci, B.; Petersson, G. A.; Nakatsuji, H.; Caricato, M.; Li, X.; Hratchian, H. P.; Izmaylov, A. F.; Bloino, J.; Zheng, G.; Sonnenberg, J. L.; Hada, M.; Ehara, M.; Toyota, K.; Fukuda, R.; Hasegawa, J.; Ishida, M.; Nakajima, T.; Honda, Y.; Kitao, O.; Nakai, H.; Vreven, T.; Montgomery, J. A., Jr.; Peralta, J. E.; Ogliaro, F.; Bearpark, M.; Heyd, J. J.; Brothers, E.; Kudin, K. N.; Staroverov, V. N.; Kobayashi, R.; Normand, J.; Raghavachari, K.; Rendell, A.; Burant, J. C.; Iyengar, S. S.; Tomasi, J.; Cossi, M.; Rega, N.; Millam, J. M.; Klene, M.; Knox, J. E.; Cross, J. B.; Bakken, V.; Adamo, C.; Jaramillo, J.; Gomperts, R.; Stratmann, R. E.; Yazyev, O.; Austin, A. J.; Cammi, R.; Pomelli, C.; Ochterski, J. W.; Martin, R. L.; Morokuma, K.; Zakrzewski, V. G.; Voth, G. A.; Salvador, P.; Dannenberg, J. J.; Dapprich, S.; Daniels, A. D.; Farkas, Ö.; Foresman, J. B.; Ortiz, J. V.; Cioslowski, J.; Fox, D. J. Gaussian 09, revision D.01; Gaussian, Inc.: Wallingford, CT, 2009.Google Scholar
55(a) Hay, P. J.; Wadt, W. R. J. Chem. Phys. 1985, 82, 299– 310[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Hay, P. J.; Wadt, W. R. J. Chem. Phys. 1985, 82, 270– 283[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(c) Wadt, W. R.; Hay, P. J. J. Chem. Phys. 1985, 82, 284– 298[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
56(a) Krishnan, R.; Binkley, J. S.; Seeger, R.; Pople, J. A. J. Chem. Phys. 1980, 72, 650– 654[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Mclean, A. D.; Chandler, G. S. J. Chem. Phys. 1980, 72, 5639– 5648[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
57(a) Roy, L. E.; Hay, P. J.; Martin, R. L. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2008, 4, 1029– 1031[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Ehlers, A. W.; Bohme, M.; Dapprich, S.; Gobbi, A.; Hollwarth, A.; Jonas, V.; Kohler, K. F.; Stegmann, R.; Veldkamp, A.; Frenking, G. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1993, 208, 111– 114[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
58(a) Frisch, M. J.; Pople, J. A.; Binkley, J. S. J. Chem. Phys. 1984, 80, 3265– 3269[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
(b) Clark, T.; Chandrasekhar, J.; Spitznagel, G. W.; Schleyer, P. V. J. Comput. Chem. 1983, 4, 294– 301[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
59Grimme, S.; Antony, J.; Ehrlich, S.; Krieg, H. J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 132, 154104– 154119[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Grimme, S.; Ehrlich, S.; Goerigk, L. J. Comput. Chem. 2011, 32, 1456– 1465[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
ARTICLE SECTIONS Jump To
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
4
Mentioning
118
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 96 publications.
Ming-Lei Sun, Zhong-Pan Hu, Hao-Yu Wang, Yu-Jun Suo, Zhong-Yong Yuan. Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4719-4741. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00103
Jian Dou, Joey Funderburg, Kunran Yang, Junchen Liu, Dennis Chacko, Kui Zhang, Adam P. Harvey, Vasudev P. Haribal, S. James. Zhou, Fanxing Li. CexZr1–xO2-Supported CrOx Catalysts for CO2-Assisted Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane─Probing the Active Sites and Strategies for Enhanced Stability. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (1) , 213-223. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05286
Kewei Yu, Sanjana Srinivas, Cong Wang, Weiqi Chen, Lu Ma, Steven N. Ehrlich, Nebojsa Marinkovic, Pawan Kumar, Eric A. Stach, Stavros Caratzoulas, Weiqing Zheng, Dionisios G. Vlachos. High-Temperature Pretreatment Effect on Co/SiO2 Active Sites and Ethane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (19) , 11749-11760. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03180
Zoha H. Syed, Mohammad Rasel Mian, Roshan Patel, Haomiao Xie, Zihan Pengmei, Zhihengyu Chen, Florencia A. Son, Timothy A. Goetjen, Alon Chapovetsky, Kira M. Fahy, Fanrui Sha, Xingjie Wang, Selim Alayoglu, David M. Kaphan, Karena W. Chapman, Matthew Neurock, Laura Gagliardi, Massimiliano Delferro, Omar K. Farha. Sulfated Zirconium Metal–Organic Frameworks as Well-Defined Supports for Enhancing Organometallic Catalysis. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (37) , 16883-16897. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c05290
Jiajia Shi, Yao Wei, Dan Zhou, Leilei Zhang, Xiaofeng Yang, Zhili Miao, Haifeng Qi, Shengxin Zhang, Anqi Li, Xiaoyan Liu, Wensheng Yan, Zheng Jiang, Aiqin Wang, Tao Zhang. Introducing Co–O Moiety to Co–N–C Single-Atom Catalyst for Ethylbenzene Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (13) , 7760-7772. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01873
Yinan Xu, Nicole J. LiBretto, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller, Jeffrey Greeley. First-Principles Analysis of Ethylene Oligomerization on Single-Site Ga3+ Catalysts Supported on Amorphous Silica. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (9) , 5416-5424. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05936
Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives. Understanding the Olefin Polymerization Initiation Mechanism by Cr(III)/SiO2 Using the Activation Strain Model. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (1) , 296-308. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c09753
Lizhi Wu, Zhuangzhuang Ren, Yongsheng He, Meng Yang, Yunkai Yu, Yueming Liu, Li Tan, Yu Tang. Atomically Dispersed Co2+ Sites Incorporated into a Silicalite-1 Zeolite Framework as a High-Performance and Coking-Resistant Catalyst for Propane Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (41) , 48934-48948. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c15892
David Trummer, Keith Searles, Alexander Algasov, Sergey A. Guda, Alexander V. Soldatov, Harry Ramanantoanina, Olga V. Safonova, Alexander A. Guda, Christophe Copéret. Deciphering the Phillips Catalyst by Orbital Analysis and Supervised Machine Learning from Cr Pre-edge XANES of Molecular Libraries. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (19) , 7326-7341. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c10791
C. S. Praveen, A. P. Borosy, C. Copéret, A. Comas-Vives. Strain in Silica-Supported Ga(III) Sites: Neither Too Much nor Too Little for Propane Dehydrogenation Catalytic Activity. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (10) , 6865-6874. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c03135
Selina K. Kaiser, Zupeng Chen, Dario Faust Akl, Sharon Mitchell, Javier Pérez-Ramírez. Single-Atom Catalysts across the Periodic Table. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (21) , 11703-11809. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00576
Sai Chen, Chunlei Pei, Guodong Sun, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Jinlong Gong. Nanostructured Catalysts toward Efficient Propane Dehydrogenation. Accounts of Materials Research 2020, 1 (1) , 30-40. https://doi.org/10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012
Manoja K. Samantaray, Valerio D’Elia, Eva Pump, Laura Falivene, Moussab Harb, Samy Ould Chikh, Luigi Cavallo, Jean-Marie Basset. The Comparison between Single Atom Catalysis and Surface Organometallic Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 734-813. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00238
David M. Kaphan, Magali S. Ferrandon, Ryan R. Langeslay, Gokhan Celik, Evan C. Wegener, Cong Liu, Jens Niklas, Oleg G. Poluektov, Massimiliano Delferro. Mechanistic Aspects of a Surface Organovanadium(III) Catalyst for Hydrocarbon Hydrogenation and Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (12) , 11055-11066. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02800
Dylan J. Walsh, Michael G. Hyatt, Susannah A. Miller, Damien Guironnet. Recent Trends in Catalytic Polymerizations. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (12) , 11153-11188. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b03226
Christophe Copéret. Single-Sites and Nanoparticles at Tailored Interfaces Prepared via Surface Organometallic Chemistry from Thermolytic Molecular Precursors. Accounts of Chemical Research 2019, 52 (6) , 1697-1708. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.9b00138
Zoha H. Syed, David M. Kaphan, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Magali S. Ferrandon, Evan C. Wegener, Gokhan Celik, Jianguo Wen, Cong Liu, Fulya Dogan, Karen I. Goldberg, Massimiliano Delferro. Electrophilic Organoiridium(III) Pincer Complexes on Sulfated Zirconia for Hydrocarbon Activation and Functionalization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (15) , 6325-6337. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b00896
Lorenzo Mino, Caterina Barzan, Giorgia A. Martino, Alessandro Piovano, Giuseppe Spoto, Adriano Zecchina, Elena Groppo. Photoinduced Ethylene Polymerization on the CrVI/SiO2 Phillips Catalyst. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (13) , 8145-8152. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b08118
Nicole J. LiBretto, Ce Yang, Yang Ren, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Identification of Surface Structures in Pt3Cr Intermetallic Nanocatalysts. Chemistry of Materials 2019, 31 (5) , 1597-1609. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b04774
Michele L. Sarazen, Christopher W. Jones. MOF-Derived Iron Catalysts for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (50) , 28637-28644. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b08066
Elena Groppo, Giorgia Antonina Martino, Alessandro Piovano, Caterina Barzan. The Active Sites in the Phillips Catalysts: Origins of a Lively Debate and a Vision for the Future. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (11) , 10846-10863. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02521
Yiqing Zhao, Hyuntae Sohn, Bo Hu, Jens Niklas, Oleg G. Poluektov, Jun Tian, Massimiliano Delferro, Adam S. Hock. Zirconium Modification Promotes Catalytic Activity of a Single-Site Cobalt Heterogeneous Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Omega 2018, 3 (9) , 11117-11127. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.8b00862
Elena Morra, Giorgia A. Martino, Alessandro Piovano, Caterina Barzan, Elena Groppo, Mario Chiesa. In Situ X- and Q-Band EPR Investigation of Ethylene Polymerization on Cr/SiO2 Phillips Catalyst. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (37) , 21531-21536. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b07699
Keith Searles, Ka Wing Chan, Jorge Augusto Mendes Burak, Dmitry Zemlyanov, Olga Safonova, Christophe Copéret. Highly Productive Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst Using Silica-Supported Ga–Pt Nanoparticles Generated from Single-Sites. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (37) , 11674-11679. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b05378
David M. Kaphan, Rachel C. Klet, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Ce Yang, A. Jeremy Kropf, Massimiliano Delferro. Surface Organometallic Chemistry of Supported Iridium(III) as a Probe for Organotransition Metal–Support Interactions in C–H Activation. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (6) , 5363-5373. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00855
Amanda K. Cook, Christophe Copéret. Alkyne Hydroamination Catalyzed by Silica-Supported Isolated Zn(II) Sites. Organometallics 2018, 37 (9) , 1342-1345. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.8b00202
Aidan R. Mouat, Cassandra L. Whitford, Bor-Rong Chen, Shengsi Liu, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Michael J. Bedzyk, Massimiliano Delferro, Peter C. Stair, and Tobin J. Marks . Synthesis of Supported Pd0 Nanoparticles from a Single-Site Pd2+ Surface Complex by Alkene Reduction. Chemistry of Materials 2018, 30 (3) , 1032-1044. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b04909
Caterina Barzan, Alessandro Piovano, Luca Braglia, Giorgia A. Martino, Carlo Lamberti, Silvia Bordiga, and Elena Groppo . Ligands Make the Difference! Molecular Insights into CrVI/SiO2 Phillips Catalyst during Ethylene Polymerization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (47) , 17064-17073. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b07437
Bryan R. Goldsmith, Baron Peters, J. Karl Johnson, Bruce C. Gates, and Susannah L. Scott . Beyond Ordered Materials: Understanding Catalytic Sites on Amorphous Solids. ACS Catalysis 2017, 7 (11) , 7543-7557. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b01767
Andrew G. Bean Getsoian, Bo Hu, Jeffrey T. Miller, and Adam S. Hock . Silica-Supported, Single-Site Sc and Y Alkyls for Catalytic Hydrogenation of Propylene. Organometallics 2017, 36 (19) , 3677-3685. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00623
Deven P. Estes, Amanda K. Cook, Erwin Lam, Louise Wong, and Christophe Copéret . Understanding the Lewis Acidity of Co(II) Sites on a Silica Surface. Inorganic Chemistry 2017, 56 (14) , 7731-7736. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b00443
Murielle F. Delley, Giuseppe Lapadula, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives, Vidmantas Kalendra, Gunnar Jeschke, Dirk Baabe, Marc D. Walter, Aaron J. Rossini, Anne Lesage, Lyndon Emsley, Olivier Maury, and Christophe Copéret . Local Structures and Heterogeneity of Silica-Supported M(III) Sites Evidenced by EPR, IR, NMR, and Luminescence Spectroscopies. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (26) , 8855-8867. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b02179
Murielle F. Delley, Marius-C. Silaghi, Francisco Nuñez-Zarur, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Oleg G. Salnikov, Deven P. Estes, Igor V. Koptyug, Aleix Comas-Vives, and Christophe Copéret . X–H Bond Activation on Cr(III),O Sites (X = R, H): Key Steps in Dehydrogenation and Hydrogenation Processes. Organometallics 2017, 36 (1) , 234-244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00744
Deven P. Estes, Georges Siddiqi, Florian Allouche, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Olga V. Safonova, Alexander L. Trigub, Igor V. Koptyug, and Christophe Copéret . C–H Activation on Co,O Sites: Isolated Surface Sites versus Molecular Analogs. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (45) , 14987-14997. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b08705
Shuai Tan, Bo Hu, Wun-Gwi Kim, Simon H. Pang, Jason S. Moore, Yujun Liu, Ravindra S. Dixit, John G. Pendergast, David S. Sholl, Sankar Nair, and Christopher W. Jones . Propane Dehydrogenation over Alumina-Supported Iron/Phosphorus Catalysts: Structural Evolution of Iron Species Leading to High Activity and Propylene Selectivity. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (9) , 5673-5683. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b01286
Jarosław Handzlik, Robert Grybos, and Frederik Tielens . Isolated Chromium(VI) Oxide Species Supported on Al-Modified Silica: A Molecular Description. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (31) , 17594-17603. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b05675
Christophe Copéret, Deven P. Estes, Kim Larmier, and Keith Searles . Isolated Surface Hydrides: Formation, Structure, and Reactivity. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (15) , 8463-8505. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00082
Matthew E. O’Reilly, Saikat Dutta, and Adam S. Veige . β-Alkyl Elimination: Fundamental Principles and Some Applications. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (14) , 8105-8145. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00054
Christophe Copéret, Aleix Comas-Vives, Matthew P. Conley, Deven P. Estes, Alexey Fedorov, Victor Mougel, Haruki Nagae, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, and Pavel A. Zhizhko . Surface Organometallic and Coordination Chemistry toward Single-Site Heterogeneous Catalysts: Strategies, Methods, Structures, and Activities. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (2) , 323-421. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00373
Bo Hu, Neil M. Schweitzer, Guanghui Zhang, Steven J. Kraft, David J. Childers, Michael P. Lanci, Jeffrey T. Miller, and Adam S. Hock . Isolated FeII on Silica As a Selective Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (6) , 3494-3503. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00248
Etsuko Fujita and Alan S. Goldman . Preface for Small-Molecule Activation: Carbon-Containing Fuels. Inorganic Chemistry 2015, 54 (11) , 5040-5042. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.5b00790
Yong Yuan, Zhaoqi Zhao, Raul F. Lobo, Bingjun Xu. Site Diversity and Mechanism of Metal‐Exchanged Zeolite Catalyzed Non‐Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. Advanced Science 2023, 10 (13) https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202207756
Zhiqian Lin, Hualiang Zuo, Rui Ma, Huaiqing An, Pengwei Zhao, Kaijun Liang, Mingshan Wang, Fushen Lu, Guojun Zou. The evolution of surface species by steam pre-treatment on CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Molecular Catalysis 2023, 539 , 113018. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcat.2023.113018
Fushan Feng, Haiyuan Zhang, Shaoqi Chu, Qinqin Zhang, Chao Wang, Guangjian Wang, Fang Wang, Liancheng Bing, Dezhi Han. Recent progress on the traditional and emerging catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry 2023, 118 , 1-18. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2022.11.001
Yu Ren, Xiao Chu, Qi Cao, Zean Xie, Lian Kong, Xiaoqiang Fan, Xia Xiao, Zhen Zhao. NiO and CrO x interaction promoting in situ generation of the coordinatively unsaturated Cr–O acid–base for oxygen-lean propane dehydrogenation. Catalysis Science & Technology 2023, 13 (2) , 536-547. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY01561G
Rongzhao Li, Chengtao Zhang, Shuo Li, Yupeng Du. Experimental and theoretical investigations into propane dehydrogenation over MIL-101(Cr/Al) derived catalysts. Molecular Catalysis 2023, 535 , 112894. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112894
Christophe Copéret, Maciej Damian Korzyński. Surface organometallic and coordination chemistry approach to formation of single site heterogeneous catalysts. 2023, 67-85. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-823144-9.00003-0
Fan Wu, Pengxin Liu. Surface Organometallic Chemistry for Single-site Catalysis and Single-atom Catalysis. Chemical Research in Chinese Universities 2022, 38 (5) , 1139-1145. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40242-022-2211-x
Valerio D'Elia, Arjan W. Kleij. Surface science approach to the heterogeneous cycloaddition of CO2 to epoxides catalyzed by site-isolated metal complexes and single atoms: a review. Green Chemical Engineering 2022, 3 (3) , 210-227. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gce.2022.01.005
Fuwen Yang, Jie Zhang, Zongbo Shi, Jinwei Chen, Gang Wang, Junjie He, Junyu Zhao, Runsheng Zhuo, Ruilin Wang. Advanced design and development of catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. Nanoscale 2022, 14 (28) , 9963-9988. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2NR02208G
An‐Hui Lu. Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes. 2022, 273-320. https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527815906.ch8
Yupeng Du, Yanxiao Wang, Chengtao Zhang, Rongzhao Li, Bo Wang, Shuo Li, Chaohe Yang. Theoretical and experimental investigations into light alkane dehydrogenation over chromium-containing catalyst. Fuel 2022, 320 , 123893. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2022.123893
Bohan Feng, Yue-Chang Wei, Wei-Yu Song, Chun-Ming Xu. A review on the structure-performance relationship of the catalysts during propane dehydrogenation reaction. Petroleum Science 2022, 19 (2) , 819-838. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petsci.2021.09.015
C. S. Praveen, A. Comas-Vives. Activity Trends in the Propane Dehydrogenation Reaction Catalyzed by MIII Sites on an Amorphous SiO2 Model: A Theoretical Perspective. Topics in Catalysis 2022, 65 (1-4) , 242-251. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-021-01535-9
James H. Carter, Takudzwa Bere, Jack R. Pitchers, Daniel G. Hewes, Bart D. Vandegehuchte, Christopher J. Kiely, Stuart H. Taylor, Graham J. Hutchings. Direct and oxidative dehydrogenation of propane: from catalyst design to industrial application. Green Chemistry 2021, 23 (24) , 9747-9799. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1GC03700E
Nicole J. LiBretto, Yinan Xu, Aubrey Quigley, Ethan Edwards, Rhea Nargund, Juan Carlos Vega-Vila, Richard Caulkins, Arunima Saxena, Rajamani Gounder, Jeffrey Greeley, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller. Olefin oligomerization by main group Ga3+ and Zn2+ single site catalysts on SiO2. Nature Communications 2021, 12 (1) https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-22512-6
Andrea Lazzarini, Roberta Colaiezzi, Francesco Gabriele, Marcello Crucianelli. Support–Activity Relationship in Heterogeneous Catalysis for Biomass Valorization and Fine-Chemicals Production. Materials 2021, 14 (22) , 6796. https://doi.org/10.3390/ma14226796
Lukas Rochlitz, Keith Searles, Darryl F. Nater, Scott R. Docherty, Domenico Gioffrè, Christophe Copéret. A Molecular Analogue of the C−H Activation Intermediate of the Silica‐Supported Ga(III) Single‐Site Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst: Structure and XANES Signature. Helvetica Chimica Acta 2021, 104 (7) https://doi.org/10.1002/hlca.202100078
Yihu Dai, Xing Gao, Qiaojuan Wang, Xiaoyue Wan, Chunmei Zhou, Yanhui Yang. Recent progress in heterogeneous metal and metal oxide catalysts for direct dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. Chemical Society Reviews 2021, 50 (9) , 5590-5630. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS01260B
Scott R. Docherty, Lukas Rochlitz, Pierre-Adrien Payard, Christophe Copéret. Heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts investigated via a surface organometallic chemistry approach. Chemical Society Reviews 2021, 50 (9) , 5806-5822. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS01424A
Sai Chen, Xin Chang, Guodong Sun, Tingting Zhang, Yiyi Xu, Yang Wang, Chunlei Pei, Jinlong Gong. Propane dehydrogenation: catalyst development, new chemistry, and emerging technologies. Chemical Society Reviews 2021, 50 (5) , 3315-3354. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS00814A
Giorgia A. Martino, Alessandro Piovano, Caterina Barzan, Yu-Kai Liao, Elena Morra, Kousou Hirokane, Mario Chiesa, Takashi Monoi, Elena Groppo. Cr[CH(SiMe3)2]3/SiO2 catalysts for ethene polymerization: The correlation at a molecular level between the chromium loading and the microstructure of the produced polymer. Journal of Catalysis 2021, 394 , 131-141. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.022
Youssef Berro, Michael Badawi, Fouad El Haj Hassan, Mounir Kassir, Frederik Tielens. Water-silanol interactions on the amorphous silica surface: A dispersion-corrected DFT investigation. Journal of Molecular Liquids 2020, 320 , 114496. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molliq.2020.114496
Frederik Tielens, Maciej Gierada, Jarosław Handzlik, Monica Calatayud. Characterization of amorphous silica based catalysts using DFT computational methods. Catalysis Today 2020, 354 , 3-18. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2019.03.062
Zhong-Pan Hu, Yansu Wang, Dandan Yang, Zhong-Yong Yuan. CrO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 for propane dehydrogenation. Journal of Energy Chemistry 2020, 47 , 225-233. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010
Christophe Copéret. Fuels and energy carriers from single-site catalysts prepared via surface organometallic chemistry. Nature Energy 2019, 4 (12) , 1018-1024. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0491-2
Yu-Long Jin, Lin Liu, Yu-Jie Wang, Zhen Liu, Bo-Ping Liu. Mechanistic Study on the Dominant Promotion Effect of Al-/Ti-/Zr-modifications over the VOx/SiO2 UHMWPE Catalysts. Chinese Journal of Polymer Science 2019, 37 (10) , 995-1004. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10118-019-2295-z
Ryo Watanabe, Nozomu Hirata, Kazuya Miura, Yuta Yoda, Yuya Fushimi, Choji Fukuhara. Formation of active species for propane dehydrogenation with hydrogen sulfide co-feeding over transition metal catalyst. Applied Catalysis A: General 2019, 587 , 117238. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2019.117238
Zhong-Pan Hu, Dandan Yang, Zheng Wang, Zhong-Yong Yuan. State-of-the-art catalysts for direct dehydrogenation of propane to propylene. Chinese Journal of Catalysis 2019, 40 (9) , 1233-1254. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63360-7
Jarosław Handzlik. Computational Modelling of Structure and Catalytic Properties of Silica-Supported Group VI Transition Metal Oxide Species. 2019, 315-344. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-11714-6_11
Damien B. Culver, Matthew P. Conley. Activation of C−F Bonds by Electrophilic Organosilicon Sites Supported on Sulfated Zirconia. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2018, 57 (45) , 14902-14905. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201809199
Damien B. Culver, Matthew P. Conley. Activation of C−F Bonds by Electrophilic Organosilicon Sites Supported on Sulfated Zirconia. Angewandte Chemie 2018, 130 (45) , 15118-15121. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201809199
Yanning Zeng, Shuxin Liu, Minoru Terano. Silsesquioxane‐Supported Chromium Catalyst for Insight into Phillips‐Type Ethylene Polymerization. Macromolecular Reaction Engineering 2018, 12 (5) https://doi.org/10.1002/mren.201800049
Christophe Copéret, Florian Allouche, Ka Wing Chan, Matthew P. Conley, Murielle F. Delley, Alexey Fedorov, Ilia B. Moroz, Victor Mougel, Margherita Pucino, Keith Searles, Keishi Yamamoto, Pavel A. Zhizhko. Bridging the Gap between Industrial and Well‐Defined Supported Catalysts. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2018, 57 (22) , 6398-6440. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201702387
Christophe Copéret, Florian Allouche, Ka Wing Chan, Matthew P. Conley, Murielle F. Delley, Alexey Fedorov, Ilia B. Moroz, Victor Mougel, Margherita Pucino, Keith Searles, Keishi Yamamoto, Pavel A. Zhizhko. Eine Brücke zwischen industriellen und wohldefinierten Trägerkatalysatoren. Angewandte Chemie 2018, 130 (22) , 6506-6551. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201702387
Zhen Liu, Boping Liu. Computational Studies of Chromium/Silica Catalysts. 2018, 131-160. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119242277.ch5
Maciej Gierada, Jarosław Handzlik. Computational insights into reduction of the Phillips CrOx/SiO2 catalyst by ethylene and CO. Journal of Catalysis 2018, 359 , 261-271. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2018.01.014
Qiushi Pan, Linfei Li, Shamil Shaikhutdinov, Hans-Joachim Freund. Planar model system of the Phillips (Cr/SiO2) catalyst based on a well-defined thin silicate film. Journal of Catalysis 2018, 357 , 12-19. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2017.10.026
Murielle F. Delley, C.S. Praveen, András P. Borosy, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives, Christophe Copéret. Olefin polymerization on Cr(III)/SiO2: Mechanistic insights from the differences in reactivity between ethene and propene. Journal of Catalysis 2017, 354 , 223-230. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2017.08.016
Qiaoqiao Sun, Ruihua Cheng, Zhen Liu, Xuelian He, Ning Zhao, Boping Liu. Effect of Fluoride‐Modification on the Phillips Cr/SiO 2 Catalyst for Ethylene Polymerization. ChemCatChem 2017, 9 (17) , 3364-3373. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201700375
Bo Hu, Wun‐Gwi Kim, Taylor P. Sulmonetti, Michele L. Sarazen, Shuai Tan, Jungseob So, Yujun Liu, Ravindra S. Dixit, Sankar Nair, Christopher W. Jones. A Mesoporous Cobalt Aluminate Spinel Catalyst for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. ChemCatChem 2017, 9 (17) , 3330-3337. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201700647
Christophe Copéret, Alexey Fedorov, Pavel A. Zhizhko. Surface Organometallic Chemistry: Paving the Way Beyond Well-Defined Supported Organometallics and Single-Site Catalysis. Catalysis Letters 2017, 147 (9) , 2247-2259. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-017-2107-4
Maciej Gierada, Jarosław Handzlik. Active sites formation and their transformations during ethylene polymerization by the Phillips CrOx/SiO2 catalyst. Journal of Catalysis 2017, 352 , 314-328. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.025
Viktor J. Cybulskis, Shankali U. Pradhan, Juan J. Lovón-Quintana, Adam S. Hock, Bo Hu, Guanghui Zhang, W. Nicholas Delgass, Fabio H. Ribeiro, Jeffrey T. Miller. The Nature of the Isolated Gallium Active Center for Propane Dehydrogenation on Ga/SiO2. Catalysis Letters 2017, 147 (5) , 1252-1262. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-017-2028-2
Leonard Floryan, András P. Borosy, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives, Christophe Copéret. Strain effect and dual initiation pathway in CrIII/SiO2 polymerization catalysts from amorphous periodic models. Journal of Catalysis 2017, 346 , 50-56. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2016.11.037
R.J. Errington. Nonaqueous Polyoxometalate Synthesis for Systematic Studies of Hydrolysis, Protonation, and Reduction. 2017, 287-336. https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.adioch.2016.12.010
Aleix Comas-Vives, Kim Larmier, Christophe Copéret. Understanding surface site structures and properties by first principles calculations: an experimental point of view!. Chemical Communications 2017, 53 (31) , 4296-4303. https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CC01101F
M. Botavina, C. Barzan, A. Piovano, L. Braglia, G. Agostini, G. Martra, E. Groppo. Insights into Cr/SiO 2 catalysts during dehydrogenation of propane: an operando XAS investigation. Catalysis Science & Technology 2017, 7 (8) , 1690-1700. https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CY00142H
Ryuki Baba, Ashutosh Thakur, Patchanee Chammingkwan, Minoru Terano, Toshiaki Taniike. The influence of functional groups on the ethylene polymerization performance of silsesquioxane-supported Phillips-type catalysts. Dalton Transactions 2017, 46 (36) , 12158-12166. https://doi.org/10.1039/C7DT02492D
Hsueh‐Ju Liu, Irene C. Cai, Alexey Fedorov, Micah S. Ziegler, Christophe Copéret, T. Don Tilley. Tricoordinate Organochromium( III ) Complexes Supported by a Bulky Silylamido Ligand Produce Ultra‐High‐Molecular Weight Polyethylene in the Absence of Activators. Helvetica Chimica Acta 2016, 99 (11) , 859-867. https://doi.org/10.1002/hlca.201600199
Maciej Gierada, Piotr Michorczyk, Frederik Tielens, Jarosław Handzlik. Reduction of chromia–silica catalysts: A molecular picture. Journal of Catalysis 2016, 340 , 122-135. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2016.04.022
Dimitrije Cicmil, Jurjen Meeuwissen, Aurélien Vantomme, Bert M. Weckhuysen. Real‐time Analysis of a Working Triethylaluminium‐Modified Cr/Ti/SiO 2 Ethylene Polymerization Catalyst with In Situ Infrared Spectroscopy. ChemCatChem 2016, 8 (11) , 1937-1944. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201600200
Anisha Chakrabarti, Maciej Gierada, Jaroslaw Handzlik, Israel E. Wachs. Operando Molecular Spectroscopy During Ethylene Polymerization by Supported CrO x /SiO2 Catalysts: Active Sites, Reaction Intermediates, and Structure-Activity Relationship. Topics in Catalysis 2016, 59 (8-9) , 725-739. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-016-0546-6
Aleix Comas-Vives. Amorphous SiO 2 surface models: energetics of the dehydroxylation process, strain, ab initio atomistic thermodynamics and IR spectroscopic signatures. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics 2016, 18 (10) , 7475-7482. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CP00602G
Andrew “Bean” Getsoian, Ujjal Das, Jeffrey Camacho-Bunquin, Guanghui Zhang, James R. Gallagher, Bo Hu, Singfoong Cheah, Joshua A. Schaidle, Daniel A. Ruddy, Jesse E. Hensley, Theodore R. Krause, Larry A. Curtiss, Jeffrey T. Miller, Adam S. Hock. Organometallic model complexes elucidate the active gallium species in alkane dehydrogenation catalysts based on ligand effects in Ga K-edge XANES. Catalysis Science & Technology 2016, 6 (16) , 6339-6353. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CY00698A
Murielle F. Delley, Francisco Nuñez-Zarur, Matthew P. Conley, Aleix Comas-Vives, Georges Siddiqi, Sébastien Norsic, Vincent Monteil, Olga V. Safonova, Christophe Copéret. Reply to Peters et al.: Proton transfers are plausible initiation and termination steps on Cr(III) sites in ethylene polymerization. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 2015, 112 (31) https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1507555112
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Migratory Insertion Mechanism for Transition-Metal-Catalyzed Olefin Polymerization
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. (a) Reactivity of the Phillips Catalysta
Scheme a(a) The CrVI-containing silica material (E) is reduced by ethylene or by CO to form predominately CrII on silica (F). F is proposed to polymerize ethylene. (b) Proposed structures that initiate polymerization: chromacyclopentane species (G), chromium allyl hydride (H), chromium(IV) vinyl hydride (I), or chromium(IV) alkyidene (J).
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Reaction of [Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]2]2 with Silica Dehydroxylated at 700 °C (SiO2-(700)) To Form [(≡SiO)Cr2(OSi(OtBu)3)3] and Subsequent Thermal Treatment To Yield [(≡SiO)4Cr2]
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. (a) Reaction of [(≡SiO)4Cr2] with N2O Giving the Chromium(III) Dinuclear Species [(≡SiO)6Cr2] and (b) Reaction of [Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]2]2 with N2O Giving K
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Preparation of [(≡SiO)3Cr] by Grafting Cr[OSi(OtBu)3]3·2THF onto SiO2-(700) and Subsequent Thermal Treatment
Figure 1
Figure 1. Cluster models constructed to represent CrIII sites in silica and the corresponding CO adducts.
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Proposed Mechanism of Ethylene Polymerization Involving a Heterolytic Splitting of a C–H Bond across a Cr–O Bond as the Initiation Step
Figure 2
Figure 2. Activation of a C–H bond in ethylene by 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediates, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + ethylene. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Ethylene polymerization mechanism by 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediate, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + ethylene. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Free-energy profile for the ethylene polymerization reaction by 1a. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. Proposed Mechanism for Propane Dehydrogenation on CrIII/Al2O3
Figure 5
Figure 5. Dehydrogenation of propane catalyzed by 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediates, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + propane. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Alternative Pathways for Dehydrogenation of Propane by (a) Dehydrogenation Pathway through the C–H Bond Activation of the Methylene of Propane, (b) Direct Coupling of the Hydrogen Atoms in 14, and (c) Regeneration of 13 by σ-Bond Metathesis
Figure 6
Figure 6. Byproduct formation for the reaction of propane with 1a. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediate, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + propane. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Hydrogenation of ethylene by 1a to form ethane. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediate, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states, normalized with respect to 1a + propane. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Alternative Pathways for the Cracking of Propane by (a) β-Methyl Transfer Followed by Proton Transfer (b) Regeneration of 13 via σ-Bond Metathesis
Figure 8
Figure 8. Most favorable free-energy pathways for dehydrogenation (in green) and cracking (in blue) of propane by 1a. All energies are given in kcal mol–1.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Transition-state structures for the X–H bond activation in C3H8, CH4, C2H4, and H2. The enthalpic transition-state energy [H(TS)] at 298 K and 1 atm (in kcal mol–1, calculated with respect to separated reactants with the BS1 basis set and no dispersion correction) for the activation of the X–H bond, the pKa value, and the gas-phase acidities (ΔHr°, in kcal·mol–1) for all substrates are given below the structures.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
