I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Interaction between Calcium and Phosphate Adsorption on Goethite
Abstract
Quantitatively, little is known about the ion interaction processes that are responsible for the binding of phosphate in soil, water, and sediment, which determine the bioavailability and mobility of phosphate. Studies have shown that metal hydroxides are often responsible for the binding of PO4 in soils and sediments, but the binding behavior of PO4 in these systems often differs significantly from adsorption studies on metal hydroxides in laboratory. The interaction between PO4 and Ca adsorption was studied on goethite because Ca can influence the PO4 adsorption equilibria. Since adsorption interactions are very difficult to discriminate from precipitation reactions, conditions were chosen to prevent precipitation of CaPO4 solids. Adsorption experiments of PO4 and Ca, individually and in combination, show a strong interaction between adsorbed Ca and PO4 on goethite for conditions below the saturation index of apatite. It is shown that it is possible to predict the adsorption and interaction of PO4 and Ca on electrostatic arguments using the model parameter values derived from the single-ion systems and without invoking ternary complex formation or precipitation. The model enables the prediction of the CaPO4 interaction for environmentally relevant calcium and phosphate concentrations.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.

Present address: Netherlands Energy Research Foundation (ECN), P.O. Box 1, 1755 ZG, Petten, The Netherlands.
*
Corresponding authors phone: 31 317 483 300; fax: 31 317 483 766; e-mail: willem.vanriemsdijk@bodsch.benp.wau.nl (van Riemsdijk) and e-mail: tjisse.hiemstra@bodsch.benp.wau.nl (Hiemstra).
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
It is well-known that cations can affect the behavior of anions in environmental systems vice versa ( 1). The most important cation in environmental systems from a quantitative point of view is often Ca. Calcium influences the behavior of important anions, such as phosphate, in a complex manner since both precipitation and adsorption equilibria are potentially important. Interactions between calcium and phosphate have been studied in soil and aquatic systems ( 210), for minerals such as calcite, goethite, aluminum oxide, and MnO2 ( 1116), which all serve as model compounds for environmental systems. Models for ion adsorption on variable charge minerals have been developed in the last 20 years but are seldom used to fully describe the adsorption equilibria of environmentally important systems, although the binding in the environment of an important oxyanion like phosphate is strongly related to these metal hydroxides. The use of variable charge models is hampered because some environmentally important equilibria are quantitatively less well-known, such as the interaction of organic matter with oxides and the interaction of common environmental ions such as calcium, magnesium, carbonate, and silicic acid with environmentally relevant oxyanions and heavy metals.
In the present study, we will describe the adsorption and interaction of phosphate and calcium with goethite. Previous studies were not fully successful due to the problematic distinction between adsorption and precipitation reactions. In some model systems involving goethite, the high concentration of Ca (0.01 M) presumably caused precipitation of octa-calcium-phosphate ( 11, 15). In the present study the total concentrations of PO4, Ca, and goethite were chosen to give equilibrium concentrations below the solubility equi librium of octa-calium-phosphate and even below apatite, which is the most stable form of calcium-phosphates. Since apatite will only be formed in solutions that are supersaturated for a considerable time with respect to octa-calium-phosphate ( 17), we believe that in the systems used in this study no precipitation of PO4 and Ca occurred in solution. We do not rule out that unknown surface-precipitation mechanisms can exist or occur, but we believe that surface-precipitation is less probable if the interaction on goethite between PO4 and Ca in a binary system can be modeled on the basis of adsorption equilibria from single-sorbate systems containing PO4 and Ca alone.
In this study we will quantify and model the Ca and PO4 adsorption on goethite, and the interaction between both adsorbed ions. We will use the model parameters derived from the single-ion systems of Ca and PO4 to predict the adsorption in the mixed calcium-phosphate systems. Specif ically, we have studied PO4 adsorption as a function of pH, from pH 4 to pH 11, with and without Ca, at a total PO4 concentration of 0.5 mmol/L, and at three goethite concentrations. The Ca adsorption without PO4 was also studied as a function of pH at two Ca concentrations. The corre sponding proton release was also measured. In addition, we have studied the Ca-goethite interaction by acidbase titrations in Ca(NO3)2.
Many surface complexation models (11, 15, 1820)      have been used for the description of PO4 adsorption using surface species that are not observed by spectroscopy ( 21, 22). An important advantage of using models that do account for structural information with regard to surface complexes derived from spectroscopy, is the possibility to validate the adsorption models using spectroscopically derived surface speciation and coordination rather than simply by a satisfactory description of macroscopic data. The CD-MUSIC model has been developed as a framework to describe ion adsorption by combining available information on structure and the type of surface complexes with the macroscopic adsorption behavior ( 2225). The challenge in this study is to measure and model the effects of coadsorbing Ca on the PO4 adsorption by goethite. We will use the CD-MUSIC model as it has been used previously to model PO4 adsorption ( 22) and will compare it with spectroscopically determined PO4 speciation on goethite ( 21). Spectroscopic data on the coordination of adsorbed Ca are not available. However, the coordination of adsorbed strontium (Sr) ( 2628), which has a rather similar adsorption behavior to Ca on iron hydroxides (18, 29, 30)   , has spectroscopically been determined. Analysis of adsorbed Sr with EXAFS suggests formation of outersphere surface complexes across a range of pH values ( 2628) with some innersphere Sr present at very high pH (10.2) values ( 27).
Materials and Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Synthesis and Characterization. All chemicals (Merck p.a.) were stored in polyethylene bottles and all experiments were performed in plastic vessels to avoid silica contamination. The water used throughout the experiments was always ultrapure (18 μS/cm). A goethite suspension was prepared according to Hiemstra et al. ( 31). The goethite used here was from the same batch that was characterized earlier ( 3234). The BET(N2) specific surface area of the goethite was 96.4 m2/g. The pristine point of zero charge (PPZC) of 9.25 has been determined from acidbase titrations in NaNO3 ( 34).
Adsorption Edges. As will be explained further below, adsorption experiments were performed to study Ca and PO4 adsorption individually, and Ca and PO4 in combination, under conditions in which the formation of calcium phosphate minerals, PO4 desorption, and CO2 contamination are minimized.
At high pH values, CO2 might influence the adsorption behavior and therefore CO2 was excluded explicitly. To do so, adsorption was studied in small 20-mL low-density polyethylene vessels, often used as scintillation vessels. These vessels have proved to be gastight, since solutions could be held at pH 8 for a period of 2 months without losing the purple color of added phenolphthalein as an indicator. After opening these vessels to the air, the solutions lost their purple color quickly showing that they were not significantly contaminated by CO2 during storage.
In a large vessel, CO2 free stock suspensions of goethite were prepared by purging at pH 6 moist N2(g) through the suspension for several hours using a CO2-gas trap. Depending on the type of experiment, base (0.1 M NaOH), PO4 solution (0.01 M NaH2PO4), or Ca solution (0.01 M Ca(NO3)2) was added to stock suspensions. Prior to the addition of a certain stock suspension to the small vessels, Nanopure water and different volumes (00.2 mL) of 0.1 M HNO3 were added to the small vessels in order to obtain final pH values within the range of pH 411. Also Ca was added to the small vessels, in case of experiments with both Ca and PO4, as will be explained below. Aliquots from specific stock goethite suspensions were taken with a 5-mL syringe and pumped into the small 20-mL vessels under N2(g) to prevent CO2 contamination. The stock suspensions were prepared in such manner that after mixing of the suspension with PO4, the pH had only to be adjusted with acid in the 20-mL vessels. This was done to prevent hysteresis, which could arise from slow desorption of PO4, since lowering of the pH leads to more adsorption, as will be shown in this study. Precipitation of calcium phosphate was prevented in experiments with both Ca and PO4, by adding a stock suspension that had been preequilibrated with PO4 for at least 2 h, to the small vessels, containing Ca solution and acid, as described earlier.
After a reaction time of 24 h in an end-over-end shaker, the small vessels were centrifuged at 2000 rpm. The samples with only PO4 had to be centrifuged at 20000 rpm. All supernatants were acidified after collection. PO4 concentra tions were determined using the molybdate blue method, and Ca concentrations were determined using AAS (Varian). The pH was determined in the clear solution above the centrifuged goethite while under N2(g).
AcidBase Titrations in Ca(NO3)2 Solutions. For the acidbase titrations in calcium nitrate solutions, a salt-free stock suspension of goethite at pH 5.5 was prepared as described earlier ( 35). Details of the apparatus and prepara tion of the CO2-free base have been discussed previously ( 24, 36). The suspension was continuously purged with N2 to remove CO2. From this salt- and CO2-free stock suspension, subsamples of approximately 60 mL were titrated into vessels, in which a N2 atmosphere was maintained. Acidbase titrations of goethite suspensions (11 g/L) in Ca(NO3)2 were performed at three Ca(NO3)2 concentrations, i.e., 1.7, 6.7, and 33 mmol/L. The same salt-free goethite stock suspension was used for acidbase titrations in NaNO3 to characterize the titration behavior and the PZC of the goethite ( 35). This procedure allows the determination of the proton adsorption of goethite in equilibrium with Ca(NO3)2 relative to the proton adsorption in NaNO3, because the goethite was taken from the same stock suspension as used for the titrations in NaNO3.
Model Calculations. The adsorption of Ca and PO4 was modeled with the Charge Distribution and Multi-SIte Complexation (CD-MUSIC) model ( 23, 38). This model has previously been applied to describe the adsorption of PO4 ( 22). The Basic Stern Model ( 22, 37) is used for the compact part of the electrostatic double layer. An important feature of the CD-MUSIC model is the notion that innersphere surface complexes should not be treated as point charges at the scale of the interface. Innersphere complexes of ions are assumed to have a spatial distribution of charge. A fraction of the charge is attributed to the surface since only a fraction of the ligands of the adsorbing polyvalent ions are involved in ligand exchange with the surface. The remaining part of the charge is located at a certain distance of the surface.
As a first approach, the charge attribution to the electrostatic planes can be estimated for known surface structures of adsorbed ions by using the Pauling bond valence concept ( 23, 25). The charge distribution across the electrostatic planes can be expressed in the charge distribution value, i.e., the fraction f of the central ion (P5+, in case of phosphate; Ca2+, in case of calcium) that is attributed to the surface plane. As identified by spectroscopy ( 21), PO4 predominantly forms a bidentate surface complex, which protonates at low pH and high surface loading. At high pH monodentate complexes are formed. Phosphate adsorption modeling is based on the spectroscopically identified coordination and speciation ( 22). In case of a monodentate PO4 complex, the charge distribu tion value (f) is estimated to be 0.25 since only one of the four ligands is located at the surface. In case of a bidentate PO4 complex, f is estimated to be 0.5.
Calcium adsorption modeling is based on the outersphere coordination of strontium ( 2628), with possibly an innersphere complex at pH > 10 ( 27). In the simplest approach, all charge of the Ca2+ outersphere complex is assumed to be located at the outermost part of the Stern layer, similar to electrolyte ion complexes ( 35). However, a small charge attribution of the outersphere complex to the surface plane of approximately 0.1 or 0.2 valence unit (v.u.) is possible if strong hydrogen bonds form between the surface groups and the outersphere complex ( 39). For the innersphere bidentate complex of Ca, f is predicted to be 0.33 if adsorbed (hexacoordinated) Ca2+ has two ligands in common with the surface plane.
The model parameters to describe the basic charging behavior of goethite, i.e., site densities, capacitance of the Stern layer, and affinity constants of ion pairs, have been reported previously ( 34, 35), as has a complete description of the CD-MUSIC model ( 22). Calculations were carried out with Ecosat, a computer code for the calculation of chemical equilibria ( 40). The relevant affinity constants describing the solution equilibria were taken from Lindsay ( 9) and are identical to the constants in MINTEQA2 ( 51), except the constant for NaHPO4- which is taken from ref 51, as used previously ( 22). The Davies equation (constant is 0.2) has been used to calculate the ion activity coefficients at 25 C. The adsorption reactions for PO4 are as defined in ref 22. The parameter values have been optimized for our adsorption data using the computer code FIT from Kinniburgh ( 41), which has recently been incorporated in Ecosat.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Before discussing the CaPO4 interaction, we first focus on the individually measured binding of PO4 and of Ca in single-ion systems.
Adsorption in the PO4 Monocomponent System. In Figure 1 the adsorption of PO4 is shown as a function of pH and ionic strength level for various solid/solution ratios, leading to a variable degree of PO4 loading. The PO4 adsorption data can be described very accurately using two innersphere PO4 complexes, i.e., a bidentate and a protonated bidentate (Table 1, option I). The calculated bidentate surface speciation corresponds to the results found by CIR-FTIR spectroscopy ( 21).
Figure 1 Experimental and modeled effect of pH, Ca, goethite- or salt concentration (NaNO3) on PO4 concentration (Figure 1a,c) and corresponding PO4 adsorption (Figure 1b) at a total PO4 concentration for all systems of 0.5 mmol/L. For the model calculations options I of Table 1 was used. The dashed line in Figure 1c gives the predicted PO4 concentration in the presence of 0.01 M Ca solution (2.5 g/L goethite).
Table 1. Surface Complexes of Phosphatea and Calcium on Goethite and the Charge Distribution of the Surface Complexes Across the Two Electrostatic Planes in the Basic Stern Model: The Surface- (0-Plane) and the Outermost Plane (1-Plane) at the Head End of the Diffuse Double Layerb
  surface complexlogKFeOH-0.5HPO4Cafz0z1
PI(FeO)2PO229.4222100.480.391.39
  (FeO)2PO2H35.6523100.580.900.90
 II(FeO)2PO229.2622100.450.251.25
  (FeO)2PO2H35.6423100.580.880.88
  FeOPO319.8411100.160.21.8
CaIFeOHCa3.5510010.10.21.8
 II(FeOH)2Ca2.5010010.330.66c1.33c
  FeOHCa3.70100100c2c
aThe charge attributions for phosphate are related to the charge distribution of phosphate, protonation {} of the phosphate and to the surface component FeOH-0.5 according to Hiemstra and van Riemsdijk ( 22), where z0 = 2(H) + 5f, f is the fraction of charge from the central PO4 directed to the surface plane, z1= 4(O) + 5(1f) in the case of (FeO)2PO2, and z1= 4(O)+ 5(1f) + 1(H) in the case of (FeO)2PO2H. In the case of FeOPO3: z0= 1(H) + 5f, and z1= 6(O) + 5(1f).bFor the model curves in Figures 13 option I is used.cCharge distribution of complexes that have been set, all other charge distributions, and all log K's have been calculated on the basis of residual square of sums (RSS) where RSS = Σ(log cdata log ccalc)2, and c is the ion concentration in mol/L.
At high pH, some monodentate PO4 surface complex formation (10%  5% at pH = 8) has been detected with CIR-FTIR ( 21). In our model, this minor complex is not necessary for a correct description of our PO4 adsorption data. It shows that the adsorption characteristic of this species (pH dependency) is not different enough from the bidentate complex to be noticed by fitting the data, in particular as the species is present in a minor amount. However, it is possible to incorporate the monodentate species in the description, fitting the adsorption data under the restriction of a quantitatively correct prediction of the IR spectroscopy results (Table 1, PO4 option II). Modeling the data with or without monodentate hardly affects the derived values for the model parameters of the dominant bidentate complexes, and the quality of the data description is approximately identical for both options. A point of concern is the low CD value for the monodentate complex, obtained by objective fitting. A Pauling Bond valence analysis shows that the low CD value is much better explained assuming monodentate formation with doubly coordinated groups than with singly coordinated groups. In case of the formation of Fe2OPO3, we will get a zero charge at the common ligand, which is considered as a stable situation ( 53). We cannot rule out the formation of such a monodentate surface complex, since this complex has been observed with EXAFS at very small Fe hydroxide clusters at the lowest levels of PO4 and the highest degree of neutralization of the Fe clusters ( 52).
Adsorption in the Ca Monocomponent System. The Ca adsorption of single-ion systems is presented in Figure 2a,b. It is important to note that the figure contains, in addition to the Ca adsorption data measured in the single-Ca systems (spheres), also data referring to the mixed CaPO4 systems (squares and diamonds), to be discussed later. Let us focus on the single-Ca systems. The adsorption of Ca increases with pH and is relatively weak compared to many heavy metal cations. The adsorption is limited to pH values near or above the PZC of goethite. The influence of the change of the ionic strength is small. The effect of NaNO3 changes at pH values of near the PZC. Similar results have been published earlier for a differently produced goethite ( 43).
Figure 2 Calcium adsorption onto goethite as a function of pH for systems with and without PO4. The influence of the ionic strength (open symbols 0.01 M, closed symbols 0.1 M NaNO3) is illustrated for systems with 0.1 mM Ca (Figure 2a) and 0.4 mM Ca (Figure 2b) in the absence or presence (0.5 mM) of PO4. The increase in Ca adsorption with a decreasing goethite concentration is given in Figure 2 (0.5 mM P). The solid lines denote the model calculations for 0.01 M NaNO3, the dotted lines for 0.1 M NaNO3. For the model calculations options I from Table 1 was used.
If Ca adsorbs, protons are released. The proton exchange, corresponding to the Ca data of Figure 2a,b, is presented in Figure 3a. The proton release is usually not published together with ion adsorption data but can be equally valuable as ion adsorption data ( 44) for the determination of the modeling parameters.
Figure 3 The proton consumption in the single-Ca goethite systems. In Figure 3a the proton adsorption in the Ca-goethite systems of Figure 2a,b are given. The proton consumption has been determined relative to a data point at pH 7.1 where the experimental Ca adsorption is almost negligible. The data or curves in 0.01 M NaNO3 and 0.1 M NaNO3 are denoted respectively by open and solid symbols or dotted and straight lines. The arrows point to the experimental CIP. In Figure 3b the proton adsorption is given at three concentra tions of Ca(NO3)2. The proton adsorption is determined relative to the charge in NaNO3 measured by the acidbase behavior of goethite in 0.0050.020.1 M NaNO3 from ref 34 and represented here as dotted lines. For the model calculations option I from Table 1 was used.
Figure 3a characterizes the protoncalcium interaction at low Ca concentrations. This interaction can also be studied in the higher concentration range using acid-based titrations of goethite in Ca(NO3)2 solutions (Figure 3b). The results in Figure 3b are given relative to the acidbase behavior of goethite in NaNO3 (dashed lines). The data show a significant effect of Ca on the acidbase behavior of goethite over the whole experimental pH range, but it is most strongly above pH 7. This demonstrates that although the interaction between Ca and goethite is weak, the overall interaction can be significant under conditions relevant for the environment. Similar data have been determined earlier for other prepara tions of goethite and other oxides and recently also as a function of temperature ( 42).
Adsorption in the PO4Ca System. The Ca adsorption in the mixed systems is given in Figure 2. The adsorption of Ca in the presence of PO4 is much higher compared to the same systems without PO4.
In Figure 1c the PO4 behavior is given which corresponds to the CaPO4 systems of Figure 2. For reference, we present also the behavior of the same systems without the presence of Ca. The addition of Ca has it strongest influence on the PO4 binding at high pH, and this is due to the relatively strong binding of Ca at these high pH values. The PO4 concentration at pH 10 decreases more than a factor of 10 by adding only 0.4 mM Ca.
The effect of the particle density in the CaPO4 system has been studied separately (Figure 1c and 2c) and illustrates a remarkable point. One observes that more Ca is adsorbed when less goethite is present in the system. The stronger adsorption of Ca at lower goethite concentrations can be explained by the higher surface coverage of goethite with negatively charged PO4. The higher PO4 loading results in a decrease of the repulsive potential. Even charge reversal may occur. This effect is much stronger than the decrease in reactive surface area. It clearly illustrates the dominance of electrostatics in regulating the cation and anion adsorption behavior. No effect of altering the order of addition of acid, Ca, and PO4 was found (not shown) which emphasizes that reversible processes control the sorption behavior. The calculated saturation index for apatite, the most stable calcium-phosphate mineral, is at its maximum (0.88) in the system with the highest pH, Ca and PO4 amounts, i.e., no precipitation is expected.
As shown in Figure 2c, the Ca adsorption in CaPO4 systems does not remain restricted to high pH values. It can also be found under acid conditions at a relatively high PO4 loading created by adding the low amount of 2.5 g goethite/L (Figure 2c). The effect is due to the reduction of the positive potential near the surface upon binding of negatively charged PO4 ions. The induced reduction of the electrostatic repulsion allows more adsorption of Ca2+.
Modeling Ca Adsorption. The adsorption behavior of Ca was modeled for the various data sets. In the first approach, we have assumed the presence of only one type of surface complex. The difference in ionic strength (open versus solid symbols) leads to a common intersection point (CIP) at each Ca level for the Ca data in Figure 2a,b and Figure 3b. The effect of NaNO3 is different on either side of the CIP, but both effects are explained by the decrease of electrostatics at high ionic strength, being either repulsive (low pH) or attractive (high pH).
For each data set we have optimized the affinity constant (log K) for different charge distributions (see Table 2, Supporting Information). For each chosen CD value, we have given the residual sum of squares (RSS). The results in Table 2 show that approximately the same charge distribution for adsorbed Ca is obtained using the three different kinds of data sets (Figures 2a,b and 3a,b). The lowest RSS values were found with the charge attribution to the surface (zo) of 0.2 or 0.3 v.u. The majority of the Ca2+ charge remains in the 1-plane (z1 = 1.7 or 1.8 v.u.). No systematic difference in parameters was found between the modeling of the monocomponent and the multicomponent systems. This indicates that the behavior of Ca can be described well based on the combination of the affinity constants and charge distributions as obtained for the pure Ca or PO4 systems. All model lines are calculated using the Ca and PO4 option I, i.e., assuming the presence of only one surface species for Ca.
The fitted value of z0 and z1 for Ca can be interpreted as a compromise between a charge distribution of an outersphere complex with all charge in the 1-plane (z1 = +2) and a bidentate innersphere complex of hexacoordinated Ca (z1 = 1.33). Such complexes have been suggested for Sr ( 2628). The data of Figures 13 can also be modeled assuming the presence of these two types of complexes. Using the above suggested charge distribution, the corresponding affinity constants for Ca have been determined by fitting. The results are given in Table 1 as Ca option II. We found that introduction of two Ca complexes (option II) did not improve the quality of the fit significantly. In this case (option II in Table 1) the fraction of Ca innersphere complexes will increase with increasing pH, but the outersphere complex is calculated to be dominant for all data. This effect can be understood based on electrostatics and thermodynamic consistency. The complex with the largest attribution to the surface (innersphere) will have the largest proton exchange (25, 45, 46)   , which will lead to the largest pH dependency for this species ( 25, 47). This implies that the innersphere species will ultimately become the predominant surface species at sufficiently high pH. This may be realistic since for Sr innersphere complex formation has been suggested for Sr at high pH ( 28), with outersphere complexes predominating at lower pH ( 26, 27). The opposite trend occurs for anions ( 48, 49). As follows from Figure 1c and Figure 2, the interaction between Ca and PO4 is predicted satisfactorily with a set of constants that also describe the single-sorbate systems. It shows that the CD-MUSIC model gives adequate predictions for adsorption behavior in the binary sorbate systems. Consequently, it is not necessary to assume the existence of ternary complexes of Ca and PO4 or certain precipitation reactions to explain the interaction between Ca and PO4 for the conditions of these experiments.
Environmental Implications
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In natural waters the Ca concentration ranges often from approximately less than 0.1 (fresh surface water) to above 10 mmol/L (seawater). The lower values correspond to the experimental conditions of our CaPO4 experiments. We have shown that the Ca effect on PO4 adsorption is very significant at high pH. In eutrophic surface waters these high pH values can be reached temporarily due to the photosynthesis process which removes the CO2 component of HCO3- releasing OH-. This affects the Ca concentration. Both conditions (high pH and changing Ca concentration are relevant for the binding of PO4 to colloidal particles (Figure 1), which now can be quantified.
In soil systems, the Ca concentrations are often higher than the concentrations used in our CaPO4 experiments. One may try to measure effects of Ca on PO4 adsorption, as was done in the work of Barrow et al. ( 11) and Hawke et al. ( 15). It is however difficult to distinguish between adsorption and precipitation in such systems. The prediction of PO4 adsorption by goethite in 0.01 M Ca(NO3)2 shows that adsorption is already effected above pH 4 (dashed line Figure 1c).
The interaction of Ca and PO4 may also influence the bioavailability of PO4 in the rhizosphere of roots. Based on the mean Ca concentration in plants (mmol/kg) and cor responding transpiration coefficients (mm water/kg), one can calculate the mean required Ca concentration of the soil solution. This turns out to be approximately 0.1 mM. In general, the mean actual concentration is a factor 1050 higher, leading to a supply of Ca with the influx of water in the root system which is higher than what can be taken up by the plant roots ( 50). This phenomenon results in an elevated Ca concentration in the rhizosphere ( 50). Based on the present study, we predict a strong suppression of the local PO4 concentration of the soil solution in the rhizosphere and the corresponding flux toward the root surface due to increased PO4 adsorption at elevated Ca concentrations. The bioavailability of phosphorus will be reduced and most strongly at high pH.
es000210b_s.pdf (32.44 kb)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system: http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Authors
Ren P. J. J. Rietra - Department of Environmental Sciences, Sub department of Soil Quality, Wageningen University, P.O. Box 8005, 6700 EC Wageningen, The Netherlands
Tjisse Hiemstra - Department of Environmental Sciences, Sub department of Soil Quality, Wageningen University, P.O. Box 8005, 6700 EC Wageningen, The Netherlands
Willem H. van Riemsdijk - Department of Environmental Sciences, Sub department of Soil Quality, Wageningen University, P.O. Box 8005, 6700 EC Wageningen, The Netherlands


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 