I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Single-Sites and Nanoparticles at Tailored Interfaces Prepared via Surface Organometallic Chemistry from Thermolytic Molecular Precursors
Abstract
Conspectus
Heterogeneous catalysts are complex by nature, making particularly difficult to assess the structure of their active sites. Such complexity is inherited in part from their mode of preparation, which typically involves coprecipitation or impregnation of metal salts in aqueous solution, and the associated complex surface chemistries. In this context, surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) has emerged as a powerful approach to generate well-defined surface species, where the metal sites are introduced by grafting tailored molecular precursors. When combined with thermolytic molecular precursors (TMPs) that can lose their organic moieties quite readily upon thermal treatment, SOMC provides access to supported isolated metal sites with defined oxidation state and nuclearity inherited from the precursor. The resulting surface species bear unusual coordination imposed by the surface that provides them high reactivity in comparison with their molecular precursor. In addition, these molecularly defined species bare strong resemblance with the active sites of supported metal oxides. However, they typically contain a higher proportion of active sites making structureactivity relationship possible. They thus constitute ideal models for this important class of industrial catalysts that are used in numerous applications such as olefin epoxidation (Shell process), olefin metathesis (triolefin process), ethylene polymerization (Phillips catalysts), or propane dehydrogenation (Catofin and related processes). This SOMC/TMP approach can thus provide detailed information about the structure of active sites in industrial catalysts, their mode of initiation and deactivation, as well as the role of the support and specific thermal treatment on the final activity of the catalysts. Nonetheless, these structurally characterized surface sites still exhibit heterogeneous environments borrowed from the support itself, that explain the intrinsic complexity of heterogeneous catalysis. Furthermore, SOMC/TMP can also be used to generate and investigate supported metal nanoparticles. Starting from the well-defined isolated sites, that also contain adjacent surface OH groups, one can graft a second metal and then generate after treatment under hydrogen small and narrowly dispersed alloys or nanoparticles with tailored interfaces that can show improved catalytic performances and are amiable to detailed structureactivity relationships. This approach is illustrated by two case studies: (1) formation of supported copper nanoparticles at tailored interfaces that contain isolated metal sites for the selective hydrogenation of carbon dioxide to methanol, allowing for a detailed understanding of the role of dopants and supports in heterogeneous catalysis, and (2) preparation of highly selective and productive propane dehydrogenation catalysts based on silica-supported PtxGay alloy. Overall, this Account shows how the combination of SOMC and TMP helps to generate catalysts, particularly suited for elucidating structural characterization of active sites at a molecular-level which in turn enables structureactivity relationship to be drawn. Such detailed information obtained on well-defined catalysts can then be used to understand complex effects observed in industrial catalysts (effects of supports, additives, dopants, etc.), and to extract information that can then be used to improve them in a more rational way.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Heterogeneous catalysis is central to many efficient industrial chemical processes and to the development of a sustainable world; it relies on materials with reactive surface sites present in highly dispersed metal oxides or sulfides, zeolites, supported isolated metal sites, and metallic nanoparticles. (1) A common feature among these catalysts is their intrinsic complexity that always triggers questions regarding the structure, number, and homogeneity of their active sites. In fact, major efforts in catalysis are still devoted to understanding active site structures with the ultimate goal to improve catalytic performances in a more rational way. However, this endeavor is impeded by the lack of structural information on active sites, in large part due to the small amount of surface sites and their diversity. This in turn prevents obtaining informative and selective spectroscopic response and thereby hinders building detailed structureactivity relationships. Therefore, most catalyst developments today still largely rely on empirical methods.
The complexity of heterogeneous catalysts, that prevents rational development, is in part due to the preparation methods themselves. While cost-effective and pertinent for large scale processes, catalyst preparation involves complex chemical steps due to the interplay between the metal salt precursor, (oxide) support, and water, (2) that may involve a series of dissolution/precipitation events yielding inhomogeneous dispersion of metal sites. Subsequent post-treatment steps may lead to further restructuring of the material and thereby a heterogeneous location of active sites, including the incorporation of metal sites within the oxide matrix making them not available for subsequent steps and catalysis. (3) The resulting complexity has thus generated a large research effort in developing better characterization techniques and preparation methods.
In the past 40 years, surface organometallic(/coordination) chemistry (SOMC) has emerged as a powerful tool to control the formation of well-defined surface sites, often referred to as single-sites. (48) Such sites can be closely related to these found in so-called single atom catalysis (SAC), a name deriving from the detection of single atoms by high-resolution microscopy. (9) However, single-sites (or well-defined surface sites) require a full description of the chemical/ligand environments around the metal by multiple spectroscopic techniques (IR, NMR, XAS, etc.). A key aspect of SOMC is based on controlling the density and the coordination environment of metal sites through grafting of a tailored molecular precursor onto the surface OH groups of an oxide support. The initial OH density is usually controlled via a thermal treatment at high temperatures, and the subsequent grafting step is typically carried out in a solvent at lower temperature, typically 25 C. For instance, silica or alumina treated at 700 C under vacuum shows OH density of ca. 0.8 OH·nm2 onto which a metal precursor can be grafted to generate mostly isolated metal sites. The grafting step usually involves the protonolysis of an anionic X ligand of the metal complex, MLnXx (Scheme 1a). SOMC has mostly been directed at generating supported metal sites anchored to the support via one or two MO bonds. Monografted sites have well-defined coordination spheres where classical ligands of homogeneous catalysis are used to trigger reactivity, selectivity and/or stabilize the active sites (Scheme 1b). Examples of classical ligands include metal-alkoxos, metal-alkyls, or metal-alkylidenes that initiate olefin epoxidation, polymerization, and metathesis, respectively. Some of these supported catalysts prepared by SOMC display activity and stability that greatly surpass those of their molecular analogues. Furthermore, SOMC can be used to generate supported metal nanoparticles (Scheme 1c) or metal sites with structures that have no equivalent in molecular chemistry, i.e., highly under-coordinated and free of stabilizing ancillary ligands (Scheme 1d,e). Probably, one of the most illustrative examples is the supported early transition-metal hydrides (Scheme 1d) (1015) that show unprecedented reactivity toward alkanes, allowing low temperature hydrogenolysis or disproportionation (metathesis) of alkanes, the cross-metathesis of methane and higher alkanes, or the nonoxidative coupling of methane. (13,16) Another related category corresponds to low coordinated isolated metal sites (Scheme 1e) that are well-defined mimics for the proposed active sites of many supported metal oxides (MOx/support) found in industrial catalysts. These surface species are formed using SOMC based on Thermolytic Molecular Precursors (TMP) that readily lose their organic moiety upon specific thermal treatment; e.g., OtBu ligands are transformed into isobutene and OH that further react with surface functionalities to anchor the metal sites to the support (vide infra). (17,18)
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. a
a(a) General strategy to prepare single-sites or supported nanoparticles using SOMC with more specific categories of supported: (b) well-defined organometallics, (c) nanoparticles, (d) metal hydrides, and (e) low-coordinated metal sites free of ancillary organic ligands.
This Account will discuss first how the SOMC/TMP approach can be used to generate well-defined, single-site, mimics of industrial catalysts based on supported transition metal oxides (MOx/support) where isolated sites are proposed as active sites, and second how these isolated metal sites can be further exploited to generate supported nanoparticles and understand the effect of supports, promoters, and dopants in these more complex systems.
2. Single-Sites through a Combined SOMC/TMP Approach: Concept and Methodology
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Supported metal oxides (MOx/support) are an important class of industrial catalysts, whose active sites are proposed to correspond to isolated metal sites. The most outstanding examples are probably the industrial catalysts for olefin epoxidation, metathesis, and polymerization, as well as alkane dehydrogenation. While the former two are usually based on high oxidation state early transition metal sites (group 46), the latter two involve low valent 3d transition or main group metal sites, e.g., CrII/CrIII and GaIII (Scheme 2a).
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. a
a(a) Proposed active sites in industrial catalysts based on supported metal oxides. (b) Generation of single-sites at the surface of oxide supports using SOMC/TMP, where the direct and local environment is derived from a tailored molecular precursor.
The overall strategy to generate analogous single-sites via SOMC/TMP can be briefly described as follows (Scheme 2b): a metal alkoxide (MOR), siloxide (MOSi(OR)3) or even aluminate (MAl(OR)4) is first grafted on an isolated OH group of a highly dehydroxylated support and the resulting surface species is then treated at high temperature under oxidative (calcination) or more neutral (thermolysis under vacuum) conditions. The latter step removes all organic moieties and generates isolated metal sites, whose density is mostly determined at the grafting step by the original OH density. The final state of the isolated metal sites depends very much on the conditions of the thermal treatment and the metal ion, but this approach has proven to be powerful in generating so-called single-sites. Note that, while referred to as single-sites, the bonding of the metal sites to the support via several bonds inherently introduced heterogeneity (vide infra). This approach using TMP was originally introduced by Tilley and Jarupatrakorn in the context of producing single-site epoxidation catalysts based on high-oxidation early transition metal sites (vide infra). (19)
When carried out under oxidative conditions, the isolated metal sites remain or end up in their high(est) oxidation state. The use of neutral (vacuum/neutral gas) conditions allow however keeping low-valent oxidation states; this step can also lead to a partial reduction or oxidation of the metal sites (vide infra). An important parameter for the SOMC/TMP approach is the choice of the metal precursor itself: metal-alkoxides (LnMOR) will generate isolated ions bound to the support, metal-siloxides (LnMOSi(OR)3) will allow for having the metal ion in a silica environment, while metal-aluminates (LnMAl(OR)4) generate an alumina environment. Thus, depending on the support and the precursor, it is possible to tailor the first and second coordination sphere of the supported metal ions (vide infra). An interesting feature of these thermolytic molecular precursors is that they can also be used as models for surface sites by providing high quality spectroscopic data to benchmark computations and advanced characterization data related to surface species and active sites.
3. Case Studies with Preparation of Single-Site Catalysts: Early Studies, Generalities, Limitation,s and Applications
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
High Oxidation-State Supported Group 45 Metal Isolated Sites: Model Supported Epoxidation Catalysts
Pioneering work that combined SOMC and TMP involved the use of tris(tertbutoxy)siloxide ligands, (tBuO)3SiO. Grafting of metal precursor followed by calcination generate isolated metal sites in a silica environment because this ligand cleanly transforms to yield a volatile hydrocarbon, isobutene, and SiOH, that can easily react with the surface to establish new SiOsupport bonds (eq 1). (19) Using this strategy, silica-supported group 4 and 5 transition metal sites, mostly TiIV and TaV, were prepared as well-defined equivalents of the Shell epoxidation catalysts for which the active site(s) is proposed to be isolated TiIV sites (Scheme 3). (20) These TiIV sites are highly active and selective toward the epoxidation of terminal olefins when using alkylperoxide, ROOH, but they display poor activity when H2O2 is used as a primary oxidant as observed with other TiIV systems and the original Shell catalysts (19) unless the support and the ligand are tuned. (21,22) On the other hand, the isolated TaV species catalyze the epoxidation of terminal olefins with H2O2, pointing out the differences between TiIV and TaV isolated sites. (23,24)
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. a
a(a) Proposed active sites for the Shell epoxidation catalysts. (b) Well-defined TiIV and TaV prepared by SOMC/TMP and their specific epoxidation reactivity. (c) Proposed pathway for the formation of active sites in industrial metathesis catalysts. (d) Well-defined MoVI and WVI oxo prepared by SOMC/TMP and their conversion in metathesis catalysts at low temperatures using organosilicon reducing agents.
High Oxidation State Supported Group 6 Metal Isolated Sites as Models for the Industrial Olefin Metathesis Catalyst MOx/Support
In olefin metathesis, high-valent isolated MoVI and WVI oxo sites are proposed to be the source of active sites, presumably via formation of high-oxidation state oxo alkylidenes under reaction conditions at high temperatures (Scheme 3c). (25,26)
Recently, high oxidation state MoVI and WVI oxo surface species were prepared via a SOMC/TMP approach (Scheme 3d) using the corresponding molecular metal siloxide. (27) While a thermal treatment under vacuum of the grafted WVI oxo siloxide species yields the expected surface species maintaining the high oxidation state of W intact, (28) the corresponding MoVI system is partially reduced under the same reaction conditions and requires calcination conditions to yield isolated MoVI species. (29) Furthermore, while thermolysis of the grafted W species generates a 1:1 mixture of mono-oxo and bis-oxo species, (28) Mo is dominantly present as a bis-oxo surface species according to extended X-ray adsorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy. (29)
In the context of olefin metathesis, even if well-defined, these Mo- and W-oxo species are inactive in metathesis as such, but become highly active at low temperature (70 C), when activated with organosilicon reducing agents, (30) showing that a key limiting step is presumably the generation of low-valent sites able to yield the active species. Harsh reaction conditions (400 C) are thus likely required in industrial settings because W oxides are particularly difficult to reduce and reluctant to generate active sites. With well-defined silica-supported W-oxo species prepared by SOMC/TMP approach, a large number of active sites are generated under mild activation conditions. In fact, using labeled ethylene allows for the detection of the expected metallacyclobutane surface species, the key (and highly elusive) reaction intermediates of olefin metathesis. Here, the active species are likely generated first by formation of low valent W(IV) species that convert under reaction conditions to the propagating W(VI) alkylidene species.
Low Valent CrII and CrIII Species: Models for Phillips Polymerization Catalysts
In olefin polymerization, the Phillips catalyst, CrOx/SiO2, deserves special attention (Scheme 4a): (31,32) it is one of the very first ethylene polymerization catalysts, prior to the discovery of Ziegler, that is still responsible today for the industrial production of a large fraction of high-density polyethylene (HDPE). This catalyst is also noteworthy because it polymerizes ethylene without cocatalysts or activators, but is inactive toward propylene and shows moderate activity for the copolymerization of ethylene and propylene. To date, the nature of the active sites and the mechanism by which the polymer chain grows remain unknown. (33) While the Phillips catalyst starts as isolated CrVI oxo species, it is reduced under reaction conditions yielding mostly CrII species along with some CrIII species, which have both been proposed as active sites (Scheme 4a). (3436)
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Ethylene Polymerizationa
a(a) Phillips catalyst vs (b) well-defined CrII and CrIII silicates.
Using the SOMC/TMP approach, it is possible to generate selectively silica-supported CrII and CrIII surface sites using the corresponding metal tris-tert-butoxysiloxides, namely, dimeric CrII and monomeric CrIII siloxides, respectively (Scheme 4b). (3739) While the former generates dimeric CrII silicates, the latter yields monomeric CrIII species according to detailed spectroscopic studies (XAS, EPR, IR). Worthy of note, the dimeric CrII species is hardly active in polymerization, while the CrIII species, prepared either from the monomeric CrIII siloxide or by selective oxidation of the CrII dimeric silicates with N2O (40) into the corresponding CrIII dimeric silicates, are highly active toward ethylene polymerization and show no induction period. Poisoning experiments show that a large proportion of CrIII sites (>50%) are active, in contrast to the significantly smaller amounts of active sites found in the Phillips catalyst (<10%). These observations indicate that CrIII silicates, whether monomeric or dimeric, are competent to initiate polymerization in the absence of cocatalyst, as observed for the Phillips catalyst but without an induction period. Such well-defined CrIII silicates provide a similar polymer with a high polydispersity as observed for the original Phillips catalysts; they are similarly inactive toward propylene polymerization and copolymerize ethylene and propylene. (41) Taken together, these data suggest that the active species in the Phillips catalysts are likely based on CrIII sites, generated under reaction conditions, even if today it is not clear how such sites are formed, leading to many propositions and heated debates. (33,39) Another important piece of information that resulted from these studies is that the high temperature thermal treatment applied to generate these isolated sites or the original Phillips catalysts may not be innocent and is likely key to generate strained Cr-sites that are more prompt to initiate polymerization, (42,43) consistent with the inactivity of the corresponding molecular or grafted analogues, prior to thermolysis at high temperatures.
CrIII and GaIII Isolated Metal Sites: Models for Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation Catalysts
Isolated CrIII sites on alumina are proposed to be the active sites in the nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation catalysts, CrO3/Al2O3, used in the Catofin process. (44) As discussed above, CrIII silicates are readily generated via SOMC/TMP approach, (45,46) and CrIII sites in different environments; i.e., pure silica, alumina-silica or alumina environments are readily accessible depending on the support (silica vs alumina) and the molecular precursor, i.e., CrIII siloxide, (thf)2Cr(OSi(OtBu)3)3, or aluminate, Cr[(Al(OR)4]3. Such systems display significantly different propane dehydrogenation activities (Table 1, entries 14): the alumina-supported systems having the highest activity that exceeds what is observed for catalysts prepared by impregnation, CrO3/Al2O3, at the expense of lower selectivities due to a slight increase in formation of cracking products (methane, ethylene). Similarly, silica-supported GaIII isolated sites prepared from (thf)Ga(OSi(OtBu)3)3 (47) show very high activity, selectivity, and stability in propane dehydrogenation (48) compared to Ga2O3 or supported Ga sites prepared by impregnation.
Table 1. Propane Dehydrogenation Catalytic Performance at 550 C with Supported CrIII or GaIII Prepared via SOMC/TMP or Alternative Approaches
aFor the surface species, the number of siloxane bridges may vary from n = 0 to 2.
bCumulated TON (turnover number) after 20 h.
cThe number in parentheses corresponds to the selectivity after 20 h.
Local Environments in Supported MetalIII Sites
As shown above, CrIII sites generate a broad distribution of polymer weights, supporting the presence of a distribution of metal sites. Such heterogeneity is also evidenced for other metalIII so-called single-sites. Silica-supported isolated metalIII sites have been prepared for a large number of lanthanides LnIII, in particular DyIII, EuIII, and YbIII, as well as YIII and AlIII via grafting the corresponding tris-tert-butylsiloxides, (49,50) M(OSi(OR)3)3(κ2-HOSi(OtBu)3)x, followed by a thermolysis step under vacuum (Figure 1a). The surface YbIII species coordinated to a bipyridine antenna ligand, which readily absorbs two photons in the IR, show characteristic emission bands of YbIII as for its molecular analogues. However, the luminescence decay follows a stretched exponential behavior with a β value of 0.67, suggesting a broad distribution of YbIII surface sites, presumably related to the presence of slightly different local environments, imposed by the amorphous silica support. (5153) Noteworthy, isolated YbIII sites prepared by impregnation of Yb(NO3)3 in water show similar luminescence properties, but with much shorter life times and broader distribution of sites by comparison with these prepared by SOMC/TMP. (54) Conversely, the corresponding DyIII surface sites show remnant magnetic properties associated with a distribution of single molecular magnets that parallels what is observed for the luminescent properties of its YbIII analogues. (55) These data suggest a distribution of chemical environments in the silica-supported MIII species that translates into a distribution of physical properties for the silica-supported isolated LnIII ions. Further evidence for this distribution of chemical environment is obtained with the corresponding YIII and AlIII surface species prepared via the same approach. The 89Y solid-state NMR spectrum, obtained utilizing surface enhanced dynamic nuclear polarization, (5658) of the silica-supported YIII isolated sites clearly indicate the presence of, at least, three types of YIII sites that are tri-, tetra-, and pentacoordinated according to the observation of their respective chemical shifts (Figure 1b). (51) Similarly, the corresponding AlIII species display NMR parameters (chemical shift anisotropy and quadrupolar coupling constant) consistent with the presence of at least two different sites, i.e. tetra- and penta-coordinated Al sites (Figure 1c). (50)
Figure 1
Figure 1. Specific spectroscopic features associated with isolated sites prepared via SOMC/TMP route for (a) M = Yb, (b) M = Y, and (c) M = Al.
Overall, one should point out that all data indicate a distribution of surface sites based on the reactivity and the physical properties of the silica-supported metalIII ions. While this can be seen as a conundrum, it is in line with the fact that silica is amorphous and should thus provide a distribution of chemical environments of surface species that are attached to the support by more than one type of MO bond. This shows how the amorphous structure of silica is probably key to derive the final property of the isolated sites; it explains the broad molecular weight distribution obtained in Cr-based polymerization catalysts and relates the amorphous structure of the support to the desired final properties of the high-density polyethylene that is so important in polymer applications.
MII Single-Sites from SOMC/TMP Approach
Isolated MII sites are also prepared via the SOMC/TMP approach. For CoII, however, while the molecular precursor, Co2(OSi(OR)3)4, is dimeric in the solid-state, isolated Co(II) sites are formed upon grafting and post-treatment under vacuum at high temperatures according to elemental analysis, UVvis, and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) (Scheme 5). (59) Detailed investigation shows that CoII sites are also present as a distribution of surface sites with a broad range of Lewis acidity. (60) These CoII surface sites are particularly reactive and catalyze the trimerization of terminal alkynes at low temperature (25 C), the dehydrogenation of propane at 550 C and the hydrogenation of alkenes at 150 C (eqs 2 and 3). All these reactions involve the heterolytic cleavage of CH or H2 as a key elementary step, as shown by detailed kinetics, kinetic isotope effect, and parahydrogen induced polarization (PHIP) experiments, further illustrating the polar nature of the MO bond in these isolated metal sites. Similarly, isolated ZnII sites, prepared by the same approach, (61,62) catalyze the hydroamination of alkynes (eqs 24).
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. a
a(a) Monomeric CoII and ZnII sites. (b) Proximal monomeric Cu(II) sites prepared by SOMC/TMP that are able to convert CH4 to CH3OH.
Using the SOMC/TMP approach, isolated Cu(II) sites are also accessible on alumina whether using dimeric CuII siloxide, [CuII2(OSi(OtBu)3)4], or monomeric tetramethylethylenediamine (tmeda), [(tmeda)CuII(OSi(OtBu)3)2], precursors (Scheme 5b). (63) Such CuII sites are able to convert CH4 to CH3OH, with a good electron efficiency (>80%) according to XANES and EPR studies, thus highlighting that this two-electron process can occur on two proximal isolated CuII sites in contrast to what is proposed for zeolites where μ2-CuII2O2 (or larger clusters) are proposed active centers. (64)
4. From Single-Sites to Supported Metal Nanoparticles with Tailored Interfaces
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Besides single-sites, SOMC has been used to generate supported nanoparticles starting from grafted species. (65) Indeed, for late transition and coinage metals (groups 811), which have significantly weaker MO bonds than those of the earlier series (group 46), the treatment under hydrogen of grafted species produces small and narrowly dispersed nanoparticles on a broad range of supports (13 nm) (Scheme 1b). (5,11,6671) Here, two case studies will illustrate how the SOMC/TMP approach and single-sites can be used to tailor the interface between nanoparticles and supports, yielding improved catalytic performances and molecular-level understanding of support and promoter effects.
Case Study I: Understanding Support Effects and Tailoring Interfaces in the Selective Hydrogenation of CO2 to CH3OH
Besides the classical Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 catalysts, (72) zirconia-supported Cu nanoparticles, Cu/ZrO2, are noteworthy examples of catalysts that promote the selective hydrogenation of CO2 into CH3OH, (73,74) while most other supports lead to either poor activity or selectivity, favoring reverse water gas shift (RWGS) that produces CO instead of methanol (Figure 2a). Cu/ZrO2 shows high activity [1.36 g CH3OH·g Cu1·h1] and selectivity for methanol (up to 73%), while Cu/SiO2 displays a significantly lower activity [0.42 g CH3OH·g Cu1·h1] and selectivities for CH3OH (SelCH3OH = 49%) despite similar particle size (3 nm) and preparation methods. (75) In contrast, Cu/TiO2 is hardly active and shows low methanol selectivity [0.04 g CH3OH·g Cu1·h1, SelCH3OH = 11%] (Figure 2b). (76)
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) General strategy to prepare supported Cu nanoparticles via SOMC. (b) Activity/selectivity trends for the hydrogenation of CO2 with supported Cu particles. (c) Reaction pathway for CO2 hydrogenation at the interface. (d) Synthesis of Cu nanoparticles with molecularly defined interfaces.
More detailed investigation of Cu/ZrO2 with in situ IR and ex situ solid-state NMR spectroscopies, augmented with density functional theory modeling, indicates that the increased activity and higher selectivity are due to the interface (periphery) between Cu nanoparticles and ZrO2 where CO2 is first activated through interaction with the Lewis acid ZrIV sites in close proximity to Cu surface sites where H2 is activated and then reacts with the activated CO2 to first generate formate, then the acetal and finally the methoxy species (Figure 2c). (75) The role of the interface not only explains why high selectivities can be reached, but also why the selectivity drops at high conversion due to the competitive adsorption of CO2 and methanol/water on these key interfacial sites. This information shows that in principle one may be able to tune the interface between the Cu particle and the support to improve catalyst performances.
In fact, using SOMC/TMP, highly dispersed and isolated ZrIV sites from Zr(OSi(OtBu)3)4 and SiO2700 can be generatated (ca. 0.3 ZrIV isolated sites per nm2) along with ca. 1.2 OH·nm2 that can be used for further grafting, with [Cu4(OtBu)4] or [Cux(mesityl)x] molecular precursor; subsequent treatment under H2 at 300 C yields small and narrowly distributed Cu nanoparticles of ca. 3 nm, while keeping isolated ZrIV sites (Figure 2d). Overall, this approach generates a catalyst, Cu/ZrIV@SiO2, that contains on average one nanoparticle of Cu surrounded by one to two Zr sites and that behaves very similarly to Cu/ZrO2 [1.36 g CH3OH·g Cu1·h1, SelCH3OH = 73%] and strikingly different from Cu/SiO2 [0.42 g CH3OH·g Cu1·h1, SelCH3OH = 49%] as evidenced by the very high methanol activity [1.26 g CH3OH·g Cu1·h1] and selectivity that can reach up to 73%. Detailed spectroscopic studies show that similar reaction intermediates are formed while Cu remains metallic and Zr(IV) remains in its highest oxidation state and isolated under reaction conditions. (77) This study further supports the fact that Lewis acid sites at the interface/periphery of the Cu nanoparticles are key for high methanol selectivity. In fact, supported Cu nanoparticles surrounded by a high density of TiIV isolated sites (Cu/Ti@SiO2) prepared via the same SOMC/TMP approach as Cu/Zr@SiO2 show unprecedented activity (2.1 g CH3OH·g Cu1·h1) and intrinsic selectivity for methanol (85%), (76) in contrast to the inactive Cu/TiO2, with performances that even exceeds what is observed for Cu/Zr@SiO2 or Cu/ZrO2. This shows that isolated TiIV sites behave differently when being part of an insulating matrix like silica in comparison to titania, a reducible support. It also further illustrates how SOMC/TMP can help in understanding support effects and to tailor metal/support interfaces toward more selective catalysis.
Promotional, Synergistic, Effect in PtGa Catalysts for the Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
In the context of alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, it is well-known that the presence of both Ga and Pt greatly improves catalytic performances. (78) As discussed above, generation of isolated sites is accompanied by the regeneration of OH groups that can be used to anchor another metal. The formation of Ga isolated sites generates at 500 C ca. 1 Ga and 1.5 OH·nm2, with slightly blue-shifted OH groups by 2 cm1 in IR, suggesting a close proximity between the two sites. Grafting of Pt using (cod)Pt(OSi(OtBu)3)2 (cod = cyclooctadiene) (79) followed by a treatment under H2 at 500 C generates narrowly distributed subnanometer particles (1.0  0.2 nm) that correspond to Ga0Pt0 alloy along with 10% of remaining GaIII isolated sites according to XPS and EXAFS (Scheme 6). These supported nanoparticles show unprecedented selectivity (>99%) and productivity (32 g propylene·g cat1 h1) compared to previously reported systems, exceeding by at least 2 orders of magnitude what is observed for silica-supported isolated GaIII (0.2 g propylene·g cat1 h1). These particles have slightly Pt rich centers and Ga rich surfaces where the surface is composed of Pt surrounded by Ga atoms, (78) suggesting that isolation of surface Pt atoms by Ga provides an ideal configuration to favor CH bond activation of propane and to preclude coke formation, typically associated with the presence of large Pt ensembles. This study shows that small nanoparticle alloys can be generated by SOMC/TMP. This approach should be applicable to a broad range of bimetallic systems and could therefore be used to help understanding complex interplay between metals and supports. In fact, a similar approach using ALD can provide highly active and selective butane dehydrogenation catalysts based on Pt and Zn. (80)
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Formation of PtxGay Alloyed Nanoparticles via the SOMC/TMP Approach
5. Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
SOMC is recognized as a powerful molecular approach to design and prepare well-defined heterogeneous catalysts with performance that can outperform that of molecular analogues. However, while often seen or understood as a mere extension of supported/immobilized homogeneous catalysis, SOMC not only uses the surface as a solid ligand where a metal center is attached via one or several MO bonds, but it allows generation of metal sites with unusual coordination environments. This explains reactivities like heterolytic CH bond activation of hydrocarbons on MO bonds that is typically not encountered with the corresponding molecular complexes. In fact, the removal of organic ligands involves high temperature thermal treatments that introduces local strain and thereby the increased reactivity of isolated metal sites; it probably explains why high temperature treatments are key steps to activate most heterogeneous catalysts, including the Phillips or metathesis catalysts.
The SOMC/TMP approach is particularly useful to generate single-sites that closely resemble those present in industrial catalysts based on supported metal oxides, with the advantage of containing a larger proportion of active sites making spectroscopic characterization informative, thereby allowing detailed structureactivity relationships. This advantage likely arises from the synthetic approach itself that simplifies the surface chemistry by avoiding the formation of large amounts of unreactive species, possibly associated with complex dissolution/precipitation steps that can occur when metal salts and supports are reacted in water. Yet, despite the name single-sites, these isolated metal sites prepared by SOMC/TMP are linked to the support by multiple anchoring points that impose the presence of a distribution of environments, whether they are crystalline (presence of various surface sites) or amorphous (presence of a distribution of local environments). While having a large number of active sites (>50%) and being amiable to detailed characterization and structureactivity relationship, they display intrinsic heterogeneity that can be exploited to their advantages as illustrated by the broad molecular distribution of polyethylene generated on CrIII silicates.
While this SOMC/TMP strategy works very well for most early and 3d transition and some main group metals, it is not always applicable and depends on the metal, the support and the thermal treatment. For instance, alumina seems to be more prompt to maintain site isolation than silica. Calcination is preferred over treatment under vacuum or inert gas for easily reducible metals. On the contrary, generating low valent species necessitates using thermolysis conditions under vacuum. Overall, generation of isolated metal sites using SOMC/TMP generates better-defined surface sites that can bring new lights on industrial catalysts; it may also be seen as an opportunity to bridge the gap between complex industrial catalysts and surface science models.
Another important feature of SOMC/TMP is that this synthetic approach generates isolated metal sites along with OH groups with similar density (ca. 1/nm2) and in close proximity (within 1 nm), providing opportunities to prepare bimetallic systems. These tailored materials can be used to investigate support effects, the role of promoters and dopants as well as to study alloy formation. Successive SOMC/TMP approaches based on two different metal precursors can be used to generate nanoparticles in close proximity to isolated metal sites, Cu/ZrIV@SiO2 or Cu/TiIV@SiO2, or alloyed nanoparticles, PtGa@SiO2, when both metals are reduced. The former configuration can help identifying synergistic effects between a nanoparticle and isolated metal sites as in Cu/ZrIV@SiO2 or Cu/TiIV@SiO2 that increase the activity and the selectivity of Cu nanoparticles toward methanol by stabilizing reaction intermediates and opening new reaction pathways. SOMC/TMP also helps understanding and/or disentangling support effects by trying to evaluate (i) the role of surface atoms located at the interface/periphery of metal nanoparticles as discussed above for Cu/ZrO2 or Cu/Zr@SiO2 or (ii) the role of the bulk property of the support in driving the chemistry of surface atoms (Cu/TiO2 or Cu/Ti@SiO2). Such detailed studies will likely help interrogating the role of supports, and more specifically the role of their bulk properties (e.g., electronic structures/band gaps) on surface reactivity. With bimetallic systems that yield small and narrowly distributed alloyed metal nanoparticles, it does not only generate catalysts with greatly improved productivity as shown with PtGa@SiO2 in the dehydrogenation of propane, but it also helps to better understand the complex interplay between two (or more) metals when investigated with operando spectroscopy or environmental microscopy, a clear direction for this research field.
SOMC/TMP has been applied to only very few cases so far, but it certainly opens new opportunities in fundamental and applied catalysis. The world is facing great challenges that will need the development of more sustainable and energy efficient processes. Together with high-throughput experimentation and experimental design (big data) approaches, the TMP/SOMC approach, a molecular approach to catalysis, can be a key asset to designing highly efficient sustainable processes whether it is applied to thermo-, electro-, and photocatalysts. This approach will benefit from ongoing advances in characterization techniques and computational modeling, needed to draw detailed structureactivity relationship for rational catalyst development. It will also require the development of molecular as well as materials chemistry, where designing and preparing tailored metal precursors will be essential. Heterogeneous catalysis will thus need the further development of molecular chemistry and should be a nice playground for molecular chemists.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Christophe Copret - Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, ETH Zrich, Vladimir Prelog Weg. 1-5, CH-8093 Zrich, Switzerland;  http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9660-3890;  Email: ccoperet@ethz.ch
Funding
This work has been funded over the years by ETH Zrich, the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNF) and the Swiss Innovation Agency Innosuisse as part of the Swiss Competence Center for Energy Research SCCER Heat and Energy Storage.
Notes
The author declares no competing financial interest.
Biography
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Christophe Copret
Christophe Copret obtained a PhD in 1996 under the guidance of E.-i. Negishi (Purdue University) and was a postdoctoral fellow with K. B. Sharpless (Scripps Research Institute). He is currently Professor at ETH Zrich.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 