I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


PtZn Intermetallic Compound Nanoparticles in Mesoporous Zeolite Exhibiting High Catalyst Durability for Propane Dehydrogenation
Abstract
A PtZn alloy nanoparticle catalyst for propane dehydrogenation was synthesized by simple coimpregnation of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 with Zn(NO3)2 onto a mesoporous material, which was built with siliceous MFI zeolite nanosheets. This mesoporous zeolite-supported PtZn catalyst exhibited high activity and selectivity with remarkably long catalytic lifetime compared with other PtZn catalysts loaded on γ-alumina, MCM-48 mesoporous silica, silica gel, and bulk MFI zeolite. When measured under a high-purity propane flow at 580 C, the PtZn/mesoporous zeolite catalyst with metal loadings of 0.7 wt % Pt and 0.7 wt % Zn lasted for more than 20 days before the propane conversion decreased to half of its initial value. In comparison, other PtZn catalysts were deactivated almost completely within a few days. Atomic-resolution scanning transmission electron microscopic analysis revealed that the mesoporous zeolite contained finely dispersed Pt1Zn1 intermetallic compound-type alloy nanoparticles, which could effectively suppress catalyst deactivation. The mesoporous structure and the surface silanol groups of the MFI zeolite are suggested to play an important role in promoting the formation of intermetallic alloy nanoparticles.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:bimetallic catalysts intermetallic compounds alloy nanoparticles mesoporous zeolites propane dehydrogenation
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propylene is one of the most important building blocks in the petrochemical industry used for the synthesis of a wide range of valuable chemicals and polymers. (14) The major sources of propylene have been naphtha steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes, where propylene is obtained as a byproduct of ethylene. (4) Recently, with the burst of shale gas, ethylene production has shifted from catalytic cracking to ethane dehydrogenation. (4,5) Accordingly, direct production of propylene by propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has also gained renewed interest. (1,4,6) PDH is a highly endothermic reaction and is typically carried out using a Pt-based catalyst at a high operating temperature above 550 C to achieve high propane conversion. Under such reaction conditions, not only PDH but also other side reactions, including hydrogenolysis, isomerization, and oligomerization, inevitably occur, lowering the propylene selectivity and shortening the catalytic lifetime due to coke formation. (4,7,8) This problem has often been approached by adding a second metal element, such as Sn, Zn, Ga, and In, to Pt as a promoter that modifies the geometric and electronic properties of Pt. (912) The incorporation of the second metal can physically break down the large Pt ensembles, which are responsible for hydrogenolysis and coke formation and change the electronic environment of Pt to facilitate propylene desorption and slow down the deactivation process.
The promotional effect by the second metal addition to Pt has been reported to dramatically increase when intermetallic compound-type alloy nanoparticles are formed. (7,10,1315) Compared to disordered alloys, the intermetallic alloys having an ordered arrangement of atoms with a specific composition and definite crystal structure can exhibit a greater reduction in Pt ensemble size. Moreover, the crystalline structure of these alloys provides an enhancement in thermal stability compared to single atom or metal cluster catalysts. (13,1620) In this aspect, the intermetallic alloys showed a significant improvement in the stability of the catalyst. However, in the synthesis of Pt-based intermetallic alloy catalysts, the control over the crystal structure and morphology of the alloy has been quite challenging. (13,17) Recently, our group demonstrated an effective synthesis strategy for Pt-rare earth element (REE) intermetallic alloys in the form of small nanoparticles using ahierarchically micro-mesoporous MFI zeolite as a support material. (21) The key concept was to use zeolite with a large number of silanol nest defect sites on the mesopore wall, which enabled the hardly reducible REEs, such as La, Y, and Ce, to exist as single atomic species so that they can be easily reduced and form an alloy with Pt. The resultant Pt3La1, Pt3Y1, and Pt3Ce1 intermetallic alloys in the form of small nanoparticles exhibited high catalytic activity close to the equilibrium value and high selectivity to propylene. Most importantly, these catalysts exhibited extremely slow catalyst deactivation, exhibiting a 700-fold increase in catalytic lifetime compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst.
In the present work, we extend the concept of the silanol nest-assisted intermetallic alloy formation to show that isolated silanol groups on the surface of mesoporous zeolite can also promote intermetallic alloy formation between Pt and more easily reducible metal elements. In the case of La, Y, and Ce, only the nest-type silanols composed of three or four adjacent silanol groups were considered essential for promoting alloy formation with Pt, which we believe to be relevant with the trivalent nature of the elements. These silanol nest defects had to be intentionally generated by synthesizing a gallosilicate form of mesoporous zeolite and removing Ga from the framework by refluxing in nitric acid. Here, we assumed that when a lower-valent element with a higher reduction potential is used as a second metal, regular zeolite silanols can also be effective in promoting intermetallic alloy formation with Pt. We used mesoporous zeolite synthesized in a purely siliceous form as a support material and Zn as the second metal element, which has recently been reported as an effective second metal element to Pt in PDH reactions. (3,2224) In accordance with our assumption, the PtZn species supported on the mesoporous zeolite were found to exist as finely dispersed Pt1Zn1 intermetallic alloy nanoparticles, which exhibited outstanding PDH performance with high catalytic activity, selectivity, and durability. In comparison to the previously reported Pt-REE catalysts, the PtZn catalyst exhibited even higher durability, recording one of the highest among the previously reported PDH catalysts. We present the effect of zeolite silanols on the intermetallic alloy formation and ultimately the PDH performance, which has been examined by comparison with other PtZn catalysts prepared on various siliceous supports, including MCM-48 mesoporous silica, amorphous silica gel, and purely siliceous bulk MFI zeolite.
2. Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
The preparation of Pt-based alloy catalysts supported on mesoporous zeolite was carried out by a simple incipient-wetness impregnation method. The mesoporous zeolite used as a support was synthesized in a pure silica form following the procedure reported elsewhere using [C18H37-N+(Me)2-C6H12-N+(Me)2-C4H9]Br2 as a micro-mesopore dual structure-directing agent (SDA). (25) To this purely siliceous mesoporous zeolite, a proper combination of metals was coimpregnated by an incipient-wetness impregnation method using Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2, Zn(NO3)2·6H2O, Ga(NO3)3·xH2O, and In(NO3)3·xH2O (purchased from Sigma-Aldrich) as the metal sources. In brief, for the preparation of 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Zn supported on mesoporous zeolite as an example, 13.9 mg of Zn(NO3)2·6H2O and 6.1 mg of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 were dissolved in 0.42 mL of distilled water. This solution was impregnated into 0.5 g of mesoporous zeolite by using an agate mortar and pestle. The metal precursor-impregnated mesoporous zeolite was dried at room temperature overnight. The sample was then calcined under an O2 flow at 350 C for 2 h (ramping rate = 1 C min1, flow rate = 1000 cm3 min1 g1) and subsequently reduced under a H2 flow at 580 C for 2 h (ramping rate = 1 C min1, flow rate = 200 cm3 min1 g1). For the preparation of other metal-supported samples, the same incipient-wetness impregnation method was employed using a proper choice of the support and metal sources, except for the variation in H2 reduction temperature for different metal compositions (580 C for PtZn and Pt and 700 C for PtGa and PtIn). MCM-48 mesoporous silica and silicalite-1 bulk MFI zeolite were synthesized following the procedure reported elsewhere. (26,27) Silica gel was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (Davisil Grade 633; pore size, 60 Å; 200425 mesh particle size), and γ-alumina was purchased from Sasol (PURALOX γ-Al2O3, 98%, BET surface area = 170 m2 g1). The preparation of the encapsulated PtZn cluster catalyst inside silicalite-1 bulk MFI zeolite was carried out following the reported procedure in the literature. (22)
2.2. Catalyst Characterization
High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images were obtained using a Titan cubed G2 and a Titan ETEM G2 at an acceleration voltage of 300 kV. The energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) analysis was performed using four integrated silicon-drift EDS detectors (Super-X). Fourier transform infrared spectra (FT-IR) were obtained using a JASCO FT-IR 6100 under vacuum at room temperature after degassing the pelletized samples at 400 C. H2 temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) profiles were measured using a Micromeritics AutoChem II 2920 instrument. For a typical measurement, 100 mg of the sample was placed in a sample tube and purged with He gas (flow rate = 50 sccm) for 5 min. The gas flow was switched to a H2 flow diluted with Ar (H2/Ar molar ratio = 1:9, flow rate = 50 sccm) The amount of H2 consumption was measured with a thermal conductivity detector as the temperature was increased from 25 to 900 C (ramping rate = 10 C min1). Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained from a Rigaku Multiflex diffractometer using a nickel-filtered Cu Kα radiation beam (40 kV, 30 mA). N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms were collected at 196 C from a Micromeritics Tristar instrument. The specific surface area was calculated using the BrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) equation from the adsorption branch in the range P/P0 = 0.050.2. The pore size distribution was determined using the BarrettJoynerHalenda (BJH) method from the adsorption branch, and the total pore volume was determined at P/P0 = 0.95 from the adsorption branch. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images were taken using an FEI Verios 460 field emission SEM at an acceleration voltage of 1 kV. The extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectrum of the PtZn supported on mesoporous zeolite sample was measured at the Pt L3 edge under transmission mode at the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory (10C-Wide XAFS beamline). For the sample preparation, the metal-impregnated sample that has been calcined under an O2 flow at 350 C was pressed into a round-shaped pellet having a diameter of 10 nm. This pelletized sample was placed in a laboratory-made glass apparatus equipped with polyimide windows and heated under a H2 flow at 580 C. Then, the catalyst pellet was sealed under a H2 flow inside the same glass apparatus without exposure to the atmosphere. The EXAFS spectrum was obtained by passing the beam through the polyimide widow containing the catalyst pellet in between. The calibration of the EXAFS spectrum was performed using Pt metal foil as a reference (purchased from Alfa Aesar). The analysis of EXAFS data was performed using ATHENA and ARTEMIS software. (28) Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) results were obtained using a TA TGA Q50 instrument. The amount of coke species generated in the spent catalyst was determined from the gravimetric changes as the temperature was increased to 700 C under an air flow (ramping rate = 5 C min1).
2.3. Catalytic Test
PDH reactions were performed using a fixed bed reactor built with a quartz tube (inner diameter of 8 mm). The catalysts used were shaped into pellets with diameters in the range of 150350 μm. This was done by pressing the powder form of the catalyst into a pellet and sieving it with a mesh. To the reactor, an appropriate amount (50 mg in the case of 1 wt % Pt loading) of the shaped catalyst was placed in the reactor, and the remaining space was filled with silica sand. After the catalyst loading, the catalyst was reduced under a H2 flow at a proper temperature according to the metal element of interest (580 C for PtZn and Pt and 700 C for PtGa and PtIn) for 2 h (ramping rate = 1 C min1). The catalyst was then purged with a N2 gas flow for 30 min at 580 C. After the purging, the PDH test was performed at 580 C under a pure propane flow with a weight hourly space velocity based on the total weight of the catalyst (WHSVtotal) of 13 h1. The obtained products were analyzed by an online gas chromatography instrument equipped with a flame ionization detector (FID) and a GS-GasPro column. The propane conversion and propylene selectivity were calculated on a carbon basis from the area of FID peaks measured at the outlet stream. The amount of coke deposited in the spent catalyst was measured using a TA instrument TGA Q50 thermogravimetric analyzer. The change in the mass of the spent catalyst sample that has been collected after 3 h of reaction was measured upon increasing the temperature to 700 C under an air flow. The coke formation rate was determined by dividing the mass of coke deposited by the total mass of the catalyst and the duration of reaction time. The regeneration treatment of the spent catalyst was performed by first cooling the reactor temperature to 350 C under a N2 flow and calcining the catalyst under an air flow at 350 C for 4 h (flow rate = 200 cm3 min1 g1). Then, the catalyst was re-reduced under a H2 flow at 580 C for 2 h (ramping rate = 1 C min1, flow rate = 200 cm3 min1 g1). The WHSVtotal value for the regeneration test was increased to 130 h1 in order to accelerate the deactivation process.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. PtZn Intermetallic Alloy Nanoparticles in Mesoporous Zeolite
The mesoporous zeolite (denoted hereafter as MZ) used as a support material was synthesized in a pure silica form with an MFI-type framework using a multiammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent (see Figure S1 and Table S1 of the Supporting Information for the detailed characterization of MZ). As seen in Figure S1, MZ was composed of disordered stacking of 2 nm-thin zeolite nanosheets, exhibiting a nanosponge-like morphology. The zeolite exhibited a large surface area of 740 m2 g1 and uniform mesopores of 3.3 nm. To MZ, an aqueous solution with appropriate concentrations of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and Zn(NO3)2·6H2O to yield 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Zn in the final sample was coimpregnated by the conventional incipient-wetness method followed by heat treatment under an O2 flow at 350 C and a H2 flow at 580 C. The 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Zn loaded MZ sample is referred to as 1Pt1Zn/MZ.
The morphology and structure of the supported metals in 1Pt1Zn/MZ were investigated by the atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM analysis. Figure 1a,b shows the representative low- and high-magnification HAADF-STEM images of 1Pt1Zn/MZ. The supported metal catalysts were mostly in the form of tiny nanoparticles less than 3 nm in diameter, which were smaller than the mesopore diameter of MZ. The mesopores in MZ allow effective confinement of metal nanoparticles and prevention of sintering by sandwiching the particles between the two mesopore walls. (29,30) The metal nanoparticles were confirmed to contain both Pt and Zn with a Pt/Zn atomic ratio of 1, according to the calculated value derived from the EDS results shown in Figure S2. From the atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM analysis, the alloy nanoparticles were determined to be Pt1Zn1 intermetallic compound-type nanoparticles. The atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM image taken along the [101] zone axis of the nanoparticle in Figure 1c shows a tetragonal array of bright and dark spots, which can be regarded as Pt and Zn columns, respectively, in consideration of the Z-contrast of the elements. The corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) image provided in the inset of Figure 1c shows the (010) and (101) reflection spots, which are characteristic of the L10 superlattice observed for the Pt1Zn1 intermetallic compound. The intensity profile acquired from Figure 1c provides more detailed information on the surface layer of the alloy nanoparticle. This once more confirms that Pt and Zn columns exist in an alternative manner (Figure 1e). Also, the spacing between the two Pt columns was 0.285 nm, which was identical to the reported value for Pt1Zn1 alloys. The Pt1Zn1 intermetallic structure was also viewed from other particles as shown in Figure 1d. In this case, the distance between the two Pt columns was measured to be 0.35 nm, which agrees well with the lattice spacing of the Pt1Zn1 alloy along the [001] direction. The excessive Zn species that do not alloy with Pt are expected to exist as homogeneously dispersed throughout the MZ support. Moreover, overall structural information of the PtZn alloy nanoparticles in MZ was obtained by EXAFS analysis. The curve fitting results of the Fourier transform EXAFS spectrum taken at the Pt L3 edge (Figure S3) also confirmed the formation of Pt1Zn1 intermetallic alloy nanoparticles in MZ. The details on the structural parameters obtained from the curve fitting can be found in Table S2.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) Low-magnification and (b) high-magnification HAADF-STEM images of 1Pt1Zn/MZ. (c,d) AR-HAADF-STEM images of the PtZn intermetallic compound-type alloy nanoparticle in 1Pt1Zn/MZ and the corresponding FFT image in the inset of (c). (e) Intensity profile obtained from the red box in (c).
The PtZn alloys supported on other siliceous supports, including MCM-48 mesoporous silica, amorphous silica gel, and bulk MFI zeolite (denoted hereafter as BZ), were also examined by HAADF-STEM analysis. The detailed characterization of different siliceous supports is presented in Figure S4 and Table S1 of the Supporting Information. The same amounts of Pt and Zn metals were supported on these supports following the same impregnation procedure for 1Pt1Zn/MZ. In the case of the 1Pt1Zn/BZ catalyst, the size of metal nanoparticles was observed to be irregular due to the formation of large agglomerates (up to 100 nm) on the external surface of the zeolite (Figure S5). On the other hand, the PtZn alloy nanoparticles on 1Pt1Zn/MCM-48 were homogeneously distributed throughout the support (Figure S5). However, in the case of 1Pt1Zn/MCM-48, the intermetallic compound-type alloy structure was not observed from the AR-HAADF-STEM analysis. Instead, small metal clusters of close to 1 nm diameter were mostly found as shown in Figure S5. Moreover, the ratio of Pt:Zn of supported metal nanoparticles determined by EDS was varied for each particle, ranging from 6:4 to 7:3. In the case of 1Pt1Zn/silica gel, the dispersion of the supported PtZn metal alloys was similar to that of 1Pt1Zn/MCM-48 (Figure S5). However, some of the supported metal particles were composed of monometallic Pt as determined from the EDS analysis. These results support that among various siliceous supports, MZ is the most suitable support for the preparation of intermetallic compound-type PtZn alloy nanoparticles.
3.2. PDH Performance of PtZn Alloy Catalysts
The PDH performance of the 1Pt1Zn/MZ was measured and compared to those of other PtZn catalysts loaded on different support materials. The PDH reactions were carried out under a pure propane flow at a WHSVtotal of 13 h1 (WHSVPt = 1300 h1) and a temperature of 580 C. The 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst exhibited a high initial propane conversion of 40%, which is almost identical to the thermodynamic equilibrium conversion (Figure 2). (4) The catalyst also exhibited a high propylene selectivity of 98%, with a minor formation of byproducts such as methane, ethane, and ethylene. The high propane conversion of 1Pt1Zn/MZ remained unchanged for nearly 3 days and began to slowly decrease afterward reaching half of the initial conversion value after 10 days of reaction. Under the same reaction condition, the 1 wt % Pt supported on mesoporous zeolite catalyst (hereafter denoted as 1Pt/MZ) also showed a relatively high initial propane conversion of 28%, but the catalyst immediately deactivated to reach half conversion within only half a day. This agrees well with previous reports claiming that the addition of Zn to Pt can effectively boost the propane conversion as well as slow down the catalyst deactivation. (2224,31) Moreover, the effect of excessive Zn species has been investigated by examining the PDH performance of the 1 wt % Zn supported on mesoporous zeolite catalyst (hereafter denoted as 1Zn/MZ) as shown in Figure S6. The 1Zn/MZ catalyst exhibited a propane conversion of 4%, which also includes contributions from the cracking reactions occurring on the zeolite surface and at the void space of the reactor. Therefore, the actual catalytic activity of Zn species on MZ seems to be minor, and the catalytic enhancement observed for the 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst seems to be mainly attributable to the formation of Pt1Zn1 intermetallic alloy nanoparticles.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Propane conversion and (b) propylene selectivity measured from 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Zn supported on MZ, MCM-48 mesoporous silica, silica gel, BZ, and alumina and 0.7 wt % Pt and 0.7 wt % Zn supported on MZ (WHSVtotal = 13 h1, WHSVPt = 1300 h1, pure propane flow, and temperature = 580 C).
The promotional effect of Zn on the PDH performance was the most prominent when MZ was used as a support, compared to catalysts supported on a conventional alumina support and other silica supports. The 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Zn catalyst supported on a γ-alumina support (hereafter denoted as 1Pt1Zn/alumina) exhibited a relatively high initial conversion value but rapidly deactivated within half a day as in the case of 1Pt/MZ. In the case of 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Zn catalysts supported on MCM-48 and silica gel (hereafter denoted as 1Pt1Zn/MCM-48 and 1Pt1Zn/silica gel, respectively), the initial conversion and selectivity were close to 40 and 98%, respectively, which were similar to those of 1Pt1Zn/MZ. However, the rate of deactivation was much faster than that of 1Pt1Zn/MZ, although much slower than that of 1Pt1Zn/alumina. It seems that siliceous supports, including MZ, MCM-48 mesoporous silica, and silica gel, tend to exhibit a longer catalytic lifetime than the alumina support. It is particularly notable that 1Pt1Zn/MZ exhibited a much longer catalytic lifetime than 1Pt1Zn/MCM-48, although the two supports both exhibit a 3D mesoporous structure with an identical mesopore diameter of 3.3 nm. On the other side, in the case of the 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Zn supported on BZ catalyst (hereafter denoted as 1Pt1Zn/BZ), which has the same zeolite framework as the 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst, the initial catalytic activity was only about 8% and exhibited a rapid deactivation behavior. This is attributed to the poor dispersion of PtZn alloy nanoparticles resulting from the solely microporous structure of BZ. (29,30)
The major reason for the deactivation of the 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst seems to be the formation of coke deposits. The size of the PtZn alloy nanoparticles remained unchanged during the reaction, as shown in the STEM image of the spent 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst that was collected after the catalyst has been deactivated to reach a propane conversion of 3% (Figure S7). The particle size distribution plots of the fresh and spent catalysts were identical, suggesting that the sintering of PtZn alloy nanoparticles did not occur during the PDH reaction (Figure S8). Moreover, the Pt1Zn1 intermetallic structure of the catalyst was found to be maintained in the spent catalyst sample according to the HAADF-STEM analysis (Figure S7). Although the coke formation rate of the 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst (0.006 gcoke gcat1 h1) was much slower than that of the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst (0.03 gcoke gcat1 h1), the formation of coke deposits over a long period of reaction time seems to trigger catalyst deactivation.
A further improvement in the catalytic lifetime of the 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst could be achieved by lowering the metal loading amount. When the metal loading was decreased to 0.7 wt % Pt and 0.7 wt % Zn on MZ (hereafter denoted as 0.7Pt0.7Zn/MZ), the rate of catalyst deactivation was tremendously decreased as shown in Figure 2. The initial propane conversion was 35%, which only decreased to 20% even after 20 days of reaction. Such enhancement in catalyst stability is ascribed to the reduction in the size of the metal nanoparticles. To the best of our knowledge, this catalyst exhibited the best PDH performance among other Pt-based PDH catalysts reported in the literature so far, including our previously reported PtLa intermetallic compound-type alloy catalysts prepared by a silanol nest-assisted synthesis approach using the demetalized mesoporous zeolite (Figure S9). (21,22,24)
It should be taken into account that the current reaction condition is much harsher than that of the commonly employed conditions for PDH, which include a N2 or H2 flow as an additive to slow down the catalyst deactivation. Such a harsh reaction condition was chosen for the present study to accelerate the deactivation process since the PtZn/MZ catalyst exhibited extremely slow deactivation under the common reaction conditions. This difference makes the comparison between the catalysts presented in this work and previous studies difficult. For a more accurate evaluation of our catalyst, we have performed the PDH reaction of a recently reported PtZn catalyst under our reaction condition and compared its performance to that of 0.7Pt0.7Zn/MZ (Figure S9). Recently, there have been several reports that use zeolite as a support material for Pt-based alloy catalysts in PDH. (22,31,32) Among those, we chose the sub-nanometer PtZn cluster catalyst encapsulated inside siliceous bulk MFI zeolite reported by Sun et al., which showed the highest stability among the state-of-the-art Pt-based PDH catalysts up to date. (22) This bulk zeolite encapsulated PtZn cluster catalyst (denoted as 0.7Pt1Zn@BZ) was synthesized following their procedure and evaluated under the same PDH condition used in this work (see Figure S10 for characterization of 0.7Pt1Zn@BZ). The catalyst showed a high initial conversion of 50 % but underwent rapid catalyst deactivation, which was further accelerated at low conversion values. This seems to be due to the solely microporous texture of the zeolite support, where the micropores are easily blocked upon coke formation. Moreover, we also performed the PDH reaction of the PtSn catalyst supported on alumina (hereafter denoted as PtSn/alumina), which is used in industrial processes under our reaction condition (Figure S9). This conventional PtSn/alumina sample exhibited extremely fast deactivation, resulting in an 85% loss of initial conversion after 12 h of reaction. These results once more confirmed the outstanding catalytic durability of our PtZn catalyst for PDH.
In addition, the regeneration ability of the 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst was examined (Figure S11). Since the rate of the catalyst deactivation for 1Pt1Zn/MZ was very slow, the WHSV value of the reaction was increased 10 times to accelerate the deactivation process within 3 h. Then, the spent catalyst was heated in an air flow at 350 C for 4 h to burn off coke species and re-reduced in a H2 flow at 580 C for 2 h (see the Experimental Section for detailed procedures). The air treatment was performed at 350 C to prevent the sintering of the catalyst since the metal species suffered from severe sintering into large particles of 50 nm diameter when heated in air above 550 C. Although coke removal was not completed by the air treatment at 350 C, the amount of coke species in the catalyst sample could still be reduced to half (Figure S12). The regeneration test results are presented in Figure S11. After the first regeneration cycle, the propane conversion could be restored up to 98% of the initial value while maintaining high propylene selectivity. However, with repeated regeneration cycles, the conversion was restored to a lower value, eventually restoring only 75% of the initial conversion by the fifth cycle. One of the reasons for the permanent loss of the catalytic activity upon regeneration seems to be the sintering of the PtZn nanoparticles. The particle size distribution of the metal nanoparticles in the 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalyst obtained after five regeneration cycles was shifted to higher values than those of the fresh and spent 1Pt1Zn/MZ catalysts (Figures S8 and S13). Further efforts should be addressed to overcome the problems associated with the regeneration of the PtZn catalyst for its practical use in the future.
3.3. Effect of Zeolite Surface Silanols on Alloy Formation
The formation of bimetallic alloys is known to be largely affected by the reduction behavior of the metal oxide species, which is decided by several factors including the reduction potential of metal elements, metalmetal interactions, and metalsupport interactions. (11,33,34) It is important to have control over these factors so that fine-tuning of the alloying behavior of the metals can be achieved for the synthesis of alloy nanoparticles with controlled composition, morphology, and structure. Recently, Ryoo et al. demonstrated that control of the surface silanol structure of mesoporous MFI zeolite allows the generation of intermetallic compound-type alloy nanoparticles composed of Pt and hardly reducible REEs. (21) They reported that La, Y, and Ce could exist as single atomic species upon interaction with silanol nest-type defects on the mesoporous wall of zeolite. These single atomic REEs experienced an increase in reduction potential and could thus be reduced and form Pt3REE1 intermetallic alloys having an L12 structure. In the case of La, Y, and Ce, only the nest-type silanol defects with three or four adjacent silanol groups on the mesopore surface, which have been intentionally generated by demetalization of gallosilicate mesoporous zeolite, were effective for the intermetallic alloy formation. However, the results in the present work support that in the case of Zn, a mesoporous zeolite support synthesized in a purely siliceous form without intentional generation of silanol nests could also effectively promote the formation of intermetallic alloy nanoparticles with Pt.
In this regard, the surface silanol structure of the siliceous supports used to prepare PtZn catalysts was examined by FT-IR spectroscopy. Figure 3 shows the FT-IR spectra of MZ, MCM-48, silica gel, and BZ, which were obtained after degassing each sample under vacuum at 400 C for 1 h. For siliceous materials, the absorption peaks corresponding to silanol groups can be found over a frequency range of 34003750 cm1. (35) In the case of MCM-48 and silica gel, which exhibit an amorphous framework structure, a broad absorption peak was observed over this frequency range. This broad peak indicates that there are various types of silanol groups present on the framework of MCM-48 and silica gel including isolated silanols and hydrogen-bonded silanols, which are assigned to the following frequencies: isolated silanols, 3740 cm1; germinal silanols, 3600 cm1; vicinal silanols, 36003200 cm1; silanol nests, 3450 cm1. There seems to be no specific silanol group that is predominantly present in these samples. On the other hand, the MZ support exhibited a sharp absorption peak at 3740 cm1, which is assigned to isolated silanols on the external surface of zeolite. (35) It also showed a small shoulder peak over the frequency range of 34003700 cm1, confirming the presence of hydrogen-bonded silanols. It should be noted that the absorption intensity at 3450 cm1, which is assigned to nest-type silanols was very small. In contrast to other siliceous supports, the MZ support was mostly composed of isolated silanols with a minor presence of hydrogen-bonded silanols. The large portion of isolated silanols seems to be related to the crystalline framework structure of MZ, which can contribute to the selective formation of isolated silanols, as well as the large external surface area of MZ, which naturally results in an increase in the number of surface silanols. In the case of BZ, a similar absorption peak shape was observed as in the case of MZ, but the peak intensity was much smaller, which seems reasonable considering the small external surface area of BZ due to its bulk crystalline structure.
Figure 3
Figure 3. FT-IR spectra of various siliceous support materials including MZ, MCM-48 mesoporous silica, silica gel, and BZ.
To gain a deeper insight into the influence of zeolite silanols on intermetallic alloy formation, we examined the reduction behavior of Zn depending on the type of support material. Zn in a bulk oxide form is typically reduced at a high temperature above 700 C, whereas Pt species are generally reduced at a much lower temperature. (36,37) For a homogeneous and effective mixing of the two metals, it is ideal that the metal species are simultaneously reduced. In the case of Pt nanoparticles supported on zeolite, Pt is reported to be reduced at room temperature under a H2 flow. (36) Thus, lowering the reduction temperature of Zn oxide species would be important for alloy formation. The reducibility of Zn oxide species can be significantly altered when they are dispersed on a support, especially depending on their interaction with the support. In this regard, the reducibility of the Zn species loaded on various siliceous supports was investigated by TPR under a H2 flow. The H2-TPR profiles of 5 wt % Zn supported on various supports after calcination under an O2 flow at 350 C are presented in Figure 4. In the case of a bulk ZnO sample that is physically mixed with MZ, a reduction peak did not appear up to 600 C. However, when Zn species were supported on solid supports, a new peak at a lower temperature of around 300400 C was commonly observed. The appearance of this peak seems to be associated with the reduction in the size of the ZnO species. From the low-temperature peak, we can gain knowledge about the interactions between the ZnO species and the support material by closely examining the differences in the peak positions. The lower-temperature peak for 5Zn/MZ started to appear at a lower temperature compared to that of 5Zn/MCM-48 or 5Zn/silica gel. In the case of 5Zn/BZ, the portion of the lower-temperature peak was much smaller than the higher reduction peak. This may be due to the formation of larger Zn species on the surface of zeolite crystals as a result of the absence of mesopores in BZ. Among the supports, MZ was the most effective in lowering the reduction temperature of Zn species. Such a difference can be related to the different surface silanol structures of the support materials, which can affect the strength of the interactions between the support and the metal oxide nanoparticles. From these results, we suggest that the isolated silanols present on the surface of MZ seem to have a positive effect on promoting effective mixing of the metals to form intermetallic compound-type alloys. This assumption was supported by the H2-TPR profile of 1Pt1Zn/MZ, which exhibited a single reduction peak over a range of 50200 C (Figure S14). The 1Pt1Zn/MCM-48 and 1Pt1Zn/silica gel samples also exhibited a single reduction peak over the same temperature range, but the peak shape was slightly different. In these cases, it was more obvious that the reduction peak is a convolution of two peaks due to the presence of a sharp maximum within the peak (Figure S14). On the other hand, the TPR profile of 1Pt1Zn/MZ exhibited two reduction peaks (Figure S14). These results suggest that the metal mixing was the most effective when MZ was used as a support material.
Figure 4
Figure 4. TPR profiles of ZnO and 5 wt % Zn supported on MZ, MCM-48 mesoporous silica, silica gel, and BZ prepared by incipient-wetness impregnation of Zn and heat treatment under an O2 flow at 350 C (offset = 0.01 mV).
3.4. PDH Performance of PtGa and PtIn Alloy Catalysts
The possibility of extending the zeolite silanol-assisted strategy for the synthesis of intermetallic compound-type alloys to other Pt-based alloys was examined. For this investigation, the PtGa alloy was chosen as a candidate based on numerous studies reporting the effectiveness of Ga addition to Pt in the enhancement in PDH performance. (9) Ga is a trivalent element but has a higher reduction potential than Zn. In this regard, we examined whether intermetallic compound-type alloys can be formed when Pt and Ga are loaded on MZ. The PtGa supported on MZ catalyst (hereafter denoted as 1Pt1Ga/MZ) was prepared by supporting 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Ga using Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and Ga(NO3)3·xH2O as the precursors and following the same metal loading procedure for 1Pt1Zn/MZ.
The morphology, structure, and composition of PtGa alloy nanoparticles supported on MZ were examined by HAADF-STEM. Figures 5a,b shows the low- and high-magnification HAADF-STEM images of 1Pt1Ga/MZ. The size of the metal nanoparticles in 1Pt1Ga/MZ was similar to that in 1Pt1Zn/MZ. According to the elemental analysis acquired from the EDS spectrum (Figure S15), these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Ga with a Pt/Ga atomic ratio of 3. The atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM analysis of 1Pt1Ga/MZ presented that intermetallic compound-type alloy nanoparticles with Pt3Ga1 composition were formed. The atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM image taken along the [112] zone axis shows an array of bright and dark spots, which can be interpreted as alternating Pt and Ga columns, respectively. The corresponding FFT pattern shows the (110) and (111) reflection spots, which are characteristic of the L12 superlattice observed for Pt3Ga1 intermetallic compounds. The intensity profile obtained from the red box in Figure 5c once more confirms that Pt and Ga columns are present in an alternative manner (Figure 5d). The spacing between the two Pt columns was 0.275 nm, which was identical to the reported value for Pt3Ga1 alloys. Moreover, as shown in Figure 5e, the distance between the two Pt columns matched well with the reported lattice spacing of the Pt3Ga1 alloy along the [001] direction.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Low-magnification and (b) high-magnification HAADF-STEM images of 1Pt1Ga/MZ. (c,d) AR-HAADF-STEM images of the PtGa intermetallic compound-type alloy nanoparticle in 1Pt1Ga/MZ and the corresponding FFT image in the inset of (c). (e) Intensity profile obtained from the red box in (c).
Figure 6 shows the PDH performance of the 1Pt1Ga/MZ catalyst that has been measured under the same reaction condition as in the case of 1Pt1Zn/MZ. The 1Pt1Ga/MZ catalyst exhibited a similar enhancement in catalytic performance upon Ga addition to Pt as in the case of 1Pt1Zn/MZ. Moreover, in comparison to Pt and Ga with the same metal loading supported on other supports including MCM-48, BZ, and alumina, 1Pt1Ga/MZ exhibited the most outstanding PDH performance in terms of both activity and stability. Such a trend was also observed in the case of the PtIn supported catalysts, which were prepared in the same manner using Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and In(NO3)3·xH2O as precursors, as shown in Figure S16. Although the PDH performance of the 1 wt % Pt and 1.8 wt % In supported on MZ catalyst (hereafter denoted as 1Pt1.8In/MZ) was not as impressive as that of the 1Pt1Zn/MZ or 1Pt1Ga/MZ, the 1Pt1.8In/MZ catalyst exhibited higher initial activity and better catalytic stability than PtIn catalysts supported on MCM-48 and alumina with the same Pt and In loading. These catalytic test results support the general applicability of zeolite silanol-based formation of intermetallic compounds, which may also be useful in various catalytic reactions involving the use of alloy catalysts.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Propane conversion and (b) propylene selectivity measured from 1 wt % Pt and 1 wt % Ga supported on MZ, MCM-48 mesoporous silica, BZ, and alumina (WHSVtotal = 13 h1, WHSVPt = 1300 h1, pure propane flow, and temperature = 580 C).
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, the use of mesoporous zeolite as a support enabled the formation of finely dispersed Pt1Zn1 intermetallic compound-type alloy nanoparticles, which were highly active and selective in the propane dehydrogenation reaction. In particular, the Pt1Zn1 intermetallic alloy catalyst supported on mesoporous zeolite exhibited outstanding catalytic durability, which was the highest among those of the reported Pt-based alloy catalysts to the best of our knowledge. From the comparison with other PtZn catalysts supported on various siliceous supports, we suggest that the isolated silanols on the external surface of mesoporous zeolite play a critical role in promoting the formation of intermetallic alloy nanoparticles. The interaction with zeolite silanols could lower the reduction temperature of Zn species, thereby allowing more effective mixing of Zn with Pt. In addition, the mesoporous structure of the zeolite provided effective confinement of the metal species inside the mesopores to result in the formation of highly dispersed small PtZn alloy nanoparticles. The isolated zeolite silanol-assisted intermetallic alloy formation approach was also demonstrated for PtGa and PtIn alloys, showing the general applicability of the mesoporous zeolite support for the preparation of various intermetallic compound alloys. We believe that the present synthesis strategy of intermetallic alloy nanoparticle catalysts using mesoporous zeolite as a support would be useful for the design of a high-performance catalyst for various catalytic reactions in the heterogeneous catalysis field.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 