I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Comprehensive Mechanism and Microkinetic Model-Driven Rational Screening of 3N-Modulated Single-Atom Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation
Abstract
Direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an economically competitive and environmentally friendly industrial scheme used to produce propylene. Beyond the traditional Pt or Cr oxide catalyst, in this study, we focus on 3N-coordinated transition-metal single-atom catalysts confined within graphene (TM1-N3/C) for PDH due to their open coordination configuration with tunable capability for CH activation. A total of 29 TM1-N3/C catalysts, covering the majority of 3d5d transition metals, are systematically screened by first-principles mechanistic exploration and microkinetic modeling to assess their stability, activity, and selectivity; particularly, we considered the possible side reactions and the coverage effect of dominant intermediate for the realistic industrial application. Only six TM1-N3/C catalysts containing early TMs (TM = Sc, Ti, Y, Zr, La, Hf) are found to be stable at the working conditions of 900 K, owing to the unsaturation of the 3N-coordinated single-atom structure. A volcano-type activity trend is obtained with the adsorption energy of propylene being the key descriptor, which shows that TM1-N3/C generally exhibit higher activities than conventional catalysts. This is attributed to the openness of TM1-N3/C that makes the TM1 intrinsically more active and the transition states or intermediates highly mobile (with larger than the expected entropy retained) at 900 K. Moreover, the side reactions and the coverage effect are also demonstrated to be prominent. After a thorough consideration of all of the influencing factors, we find that TM1-N3/C (TM = Ti, Zr, Hf) could be promising catalysts for practical applications with superior activities compared to the traditional Pt(111) catalyst. This study provides a comprehensive picture for the theoretical screening of TM1-N3/C for PDH and may pave the way for the use of low-coordination single-atom catalysts to enhance PDH in experiments.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane dehydrogenation single-atom catalyst first-principles calculations catalyst design microkinetics
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
As one of the most used industrial chemicals, propylene is traditionally produced by the cracking of naphtha, consuming massive fossil oil with a low yield of about 1317 wt %. (1) Recently, a large amount of shale gas with alkane as its main composition has been exploited, (2) prompting an eco-friendly alternative way for propylene production, namely, the direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH): C3H8(g)  C3H6(g) + H2(g), ΔrH = 124.27 kJ mol1. Due to endothermicity, PDH is generally operated at a high temperature of about 600 C to make the process thermodynamically favorable in the free energy landscape and overcome the kinetic barrier. (35) Traditionally, the supported Pt (6,7) or Cr oxide (8) has been used for PDH, but the multiatom sites on the catalyst surface could render the formed propylene strongly adsorbed in the diσ-bond mode. Thus, propylene can easily be further dehydrogenated to form propenyl or allyl as a coke precursor, undermining the activity and selectivity for PDH. (911) It is even worse that Cr oxide can damage the ecological system once leaked. Therefore, the design of efficient PDH catalysts is extremely desirable but challenged by the high stability, selectivity, and activity.
Fortunately, single-atom catalysts (SACs) have emerged as a promising solution to coke deposition problems with the unique geometrical feature. (12,13) Moreover, its activity and stability can also be tuned by changing the single metal atom, (14,15) which provide broad space for screening the efficient catalysts for PDH. Recently, single-atom transition metals anchored on nitrogen-doped graphene have received tremendous attention and can generally be divided into two typical classes according to the number of N ligands, i.e., TM1-N3/C (1619) and TM1-N4/C (2024) SACs (TM = transition metal). Remarkably, in a very recent study, the planar 4N-coordinated Ru SAC catalyst (Ru1-N4/C) has shown promising activity for PDH. (24) Compared with TM1-N4/C, TM1-N3/C could be more qualified for PDH because of the more open coordination environment exposed by the protruding structure of the three-coordinated TM1 site, which can provide more than one bonding sites for facilitating the CH bond activation. However, to determine the practical viability of 3N-coordinated single-atom catalysts for PDH under industrial conditions, it is crucial to study whether these less coordinated TM1 sites remain stable under realistic high-temperature conditions. Additionally, the activity trend and corresponding descriptor for PDH on such TM1-N3/C SACs are still not well understood, and the selectivity of propylene needs to be demonstrated. Moreover, it is necessary to investigate the potential side reactions and coverage effect of intermediate species on the performance of the TM1-N3/C SACs for PDH. Overall, the following basic questions remain to be answered: (i) Among all possible TM1-N3/C catalysts, which is the best catalyst for direct PDH under realistic industrial conditions? (ii) How do the potential side reactions and the coverage effect of intermediate species affect the performance of these TM1-N3/C catalysts for PDH? Obtaining this information will be crucial for optimizing the performance of these SACs and determining their suitability for real-world industrial applications.
In this study, we carried out a comprehensive study combining first-principles calculations and microkinetic analysis to evaluate the practical applicability of 3N-coordinated single-atom catalysts for propane dehydrogenation under realistic industrial conditions. We filtered out six early TM-based TM1-N3/C catalysts that can be thermodynamically and kinetically stable from 29 TM1-N3/C catalysts (covering 3d5d TM elements) and identified the dominant reaction mechanism of PDH. It is interesting to note that only the TM1-N3/C catalysts consisting of early TMs show strong BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP)-like scaling relationships between the transition/intermediate states of the PDH process and the adsorption energy of propylene, and a volcano-type activity trend for PDH was obtained with respect to the adsorption energy of propylene. Our study also considered the potential side reactions and the coverage effect of intermediates, and we found that the TM1-N3/C (TM = Ti, Zr, Hf) catalysts could be promising for industrial applications, with activities even better than the traditional Pt(111) catalyst.
2. Calculation Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The spin-polarized density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed with a plane-wave basis set and the projector augmented wave (PAW) pseudopotentials (25) implemented in the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). (26,27) The cutoff energy was set at 450 eV, and the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) was used to treat the electronic exchangecorrelation effects with the PerdewBurk eErnzerhof (PBE) functional. (28) The unit cell was set as a cuboid with the size of 12.3 Å × 12.3 Å × 15 Å, where 15 Å is the distance between two neighboring graphene layers. The k mesh was set as 2 × 2 × 1 centered at γ point to treat the periodic property of graphene. The structures of the transition states were searched using the constrained optimization method (2931) and the climbed image nudged elastic band (CI-NEB) method. (32) The force threshold for the optimization and transition state search was 0.05 eV Å1. Specifically, the PBE+U method was used to consider the correlation effect of the localized 3d electrons, and the values of U  J were taken from the literature. (33) The microkinetic simulations were performed using the CATKINAS package. (3436) Moreover, we also considered the influence of the magnetic moment of the 3d metal atoms on the energies of TM1-N3/C, and only those with the lowest energies were adopted. (37)
The adsorption energy of a single TM1 atom anchoring on the N-doped graphene was calculated by
ad
=
T
M
1
N
3
/C

N
3
/C

T
M
1
E
E
E
E
(1)
where ETM1N3/C and ETM1 are the energies of TM1-N3/C and a single TM atom in vacuum, respectively. The EN3/C is the energy of the substrate system.
Due to the high reaction temperature and the protuberance of the active site of TM1-N3/C, the adsorbed intermediates have a large degree of freedom, and therefore, their entropies should not be ignored. Here, we used an empirical formula to evaluate the entropies of adsorbed intermediates, (4,12,38) i.e., Sad = 0.70*Sgas  3.3*R, where R is the gas constant and Sad and Sgas are the entropies of adsorbed intermediates and gaseous molecules, respectively. The results indicate that Sad is basically on the order of 2/3 of Sgas, which is verified by the accurate free energy calculations based on ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations with the slow-growth method (Supporting Note 1).
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Stability of TM1-N3/C Catalysts
Ensuring the stability of TM1-N3/C catalysts is critical in the PDH reaction, as the isolated TM atoms could escape from the anchoring site and then agglomerate into clusters at a high working temperature of 900 K (Figure 1a). Therefore, we first examined the stability of all 3d5d TM1-N3/C catalysts in both kinetics (39) and thermodynamics. (33)
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) Schematic of the agglomeration of single TM atom of TM1-N3/C at high temperatures. (b) Three highly symmetric sites in the vicinity of the anchoring site and the energy profiles of the leaching of the single Ni atom to site 2 or 3 along the minimum energy paths. (c) Distribution of (Ecoh  Ead) and leaching barriers of single TM atoms of TM1-N3/C catalysts, where the cohesive energies are obtained from the experiment, (40) and the red labeled TMs in the green region are thermodynamically and kinetically stable.
The kinetic stability depends on the ability of the TM1 atom to escape from an anchoring site, which is discussed below by taking Ni1-N3/C as an example. As shown in Figure 1b, according to the symmetry analysis near the anchoring site, three possible sites for stabilization of the escaped Ni atom are first identified and labeled as 1, 2, and 3, respectively. The calculations suggest that site 1 cannot accommodate the Ni atom, while sites 2 and 3 exhibited similar abilities to stabilize the Ni atom. In particular, the energy change (ΔH) of the Ni atom moving from the anchoring site to site 2 or 3 is roughly equivalent to its energy barrier, and thus, it can be applied to evaluate the leaching barrier called the kinetic stability of TM1-N3/C. Here, we set the threshold as high as 3.3 eV for the energy barrier an atom can cross at 900 K, implying that the SAC can be considered kinetically stable if the escape probability of the TM1 atom is slower than 106 s1. Applying this rule, we found that half of the TM1-N3/C catalysts are kinetically unstable at 900 K (Figure 1c).
The thermodynamic stability determines whether the single TM atoms can aggregate over time, which can be measured by the difference between the cohesive energy of the TM and the adsorption energy of the single TM atom at the anchoring site (Ecoh  Ead), (33) where the positive value indicates that the SAC is thermodynamically stable. As shown in Figure 1c, only 27% of the TM1-N3/C catalysts is found to be thermodynamically stable. More particularly, we found that almost all of the TMs of these thermodynamically stable TM1-N3/C catalysts are early-type TMs. This can be attributed to the fact that the cohesive energy of TM first increases and then decreases as the number of its outer-shell d electrons increases, (41) whereas the adsorption strength of the TM atom on the anchoring site generally decreases as its electronegativity increases (Figure S2). Therefore, in general, the earlier the TM element, the greater the thermodynamic stability of the corresponding TM1-N3/C.
Overall, after comprehensive consideration of kinetic and thermodynamic stability, only six TM1-N3/C catalysts consisting of early-type TMs (TM = Sc, Ti, Y, Zr, La, Hf) were found to be stable under realistic operating conditions (Figure 1c). Their activities and selectivity will be discussed in the next section.
3.2. Reaction Mechanism for PDH
Understanding the reaction mechanism is fundamental to designing and screening effective catalysts. (3941) Here, we selected Ti1-N3/C as a model to identify the PDH mechanism. For clarity, we labeled the middle and end carbon atoms of the propane molecule as α-C and β-C, respectively. Our calculations showed that the first abstracted H atom could be either α-H or β-H, with the abstraction of α-H (C3H7*···H*, Figure 2a) having a slightly lower barrier of 0.71 eV, consistent with the previous works. (10,11,14) The subsequent abstraction of β-H can be assisted by the adsorbed α-H (TS1, Figure 2a) with a low barrier of 0.49 eV (subpath 1, Figure 2b), accompanied by the formation of a gaseous H2 molecule due to the steric effect. In contrast, the direct β-H removal by the adsorbed α-H (TS2, Figure 2a) was found to require a large energy barrier of 1.35 eV (subpath 2, Figure 2b).
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Part structures of transition states and intermediates in the PDH reaction. (b) Energy profiles of PDH without involving the ligand N atom. (c) Schematic of the reaction network for PDH and the TOF (s1) of each path at steady state.
In addition, we also examined the possibility of β-H abstraction by the N-ligand (TS3, Figure 2a), but found it to be kinetically unfavorable with a barrier as high as 1.62 eV due to the weak bonding between the N-ligand and H (subpath 3, Figure S3). Moreover, we considered the spillover of the adsorbed α-H to an N-ligand (TS4, Figures 2a; subpath 4 and S3), followed by the β-H abstraction. However, the calculations show that it would require a relatively high barrier of 1.30 eV for the spillover of α-H, and the subsequent β-H abstraction becomes more difficult (TS5, Figure 2a) than subpath 1 with a barrier of 1.16 eV. Overall, these comparative studies suggest that subpath 1 could be the most plausible pathway for the abstraction of β-H. Additional details on the mechanism involving the N-ligand are presented in Figure S3 and Supporting Note 2.
To quantitatively determine the primary pathway of propylene formation, we conducted microkinetic analyses with the obtained energy data for each elementary step. The analysis was carried out at a temperature of 900 K and partial pressures of pC3H8 = 0.3 bar and pC3H6 = pH2 = 0 bar, (4244) referred to as the zero conversion limit, (41,45) which assesses the intrinsic activity of the catalyst by excluding the influence of the mass transfer on catalyst performance. The results indicated that subpath 1 is the dominant channel for β-H abstraction and contributes significantly to the turnover frequency (TOF) of propylene formation (Figure 2c). This finding is consistent with the energy profiles shown in Figures 2b and S3, where subpath 1 is the most energetically favorable pathway. Furthermore, the degree of rate control (DRC) analysis (46) demonstrated that subpath 1 has the highest XRC value among the four subpaths (Table S2), indicating that the formation rate of propylene is more sensitive to the energy barrier of subpath 1. Moreover, we also investigated the PDH reaction network on other stable candidates (Zr1-N3/C and Hf1-N3/C) to further confirm our inferred dominant PDH channel, and the obtained energy data and microkinetic simulation show that subpath 1 is the dominant channel for β-H abstraction (Tables S3 and S4, Figure S4). Therefore, in the subsequent discussion, we consider subpath 1 as the primary pathway for β-H removal.
3.3. Activity Trend of PDH
With the above optimal PDH mechanism, we further calculated the energy data of PDH on the other five stable TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Y, Zr, La, Hf) catalysts (Table S4), wherein the optimized structures of intermediate or transition state are similar to those of Ti1-N3/C. However, the BEP relationships for these two dehydrogenation processes were found to be relatively poor, as shown in Figure S5. Surprisingly, the adsorption energies of propylene (Ead(C3H6)) present a strong correlation with E(C3H7*···H*), E(C3H7* + H*), and E(H* + C3H6*···H*), respectively, as shown in Figure 3ac.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (ac) Scaling plots of E(C3H7*···H*), E(C3H7* + H*), and E(H* + H*···C3H6*) with respect to Ead(C3H6) on six stable TM1-N3/C catalysts, respectively. The reference state of E(C3H7*···H*), E(C3H7* + H*), and E(H* + C3H6*···H*) is E(C3H8) + E(*). (d) Volcano-type activity curve on these six stable TM1-N3/C catalysts and the individual microkinetic analysis for the unstable TM1-N3/C catalysts. The black and red dots represent TM1-N3/C catalysts with early and late TMs, respectively, with the unstable ones being transparent. (e) Comparison of the entropy for transition state of α-H abstraction between the immobile model, the entropy formula proposed by Campbell, (34) and the slow-growth method with Mo1-N3/C as the model. (f) Early and late TMs in the periodic table of elements can be divided by the fold line, where green and yellow indicate the low and high electronegativity, respectively. The TM elements of stable TM1-N3/C are in the left part of the early TM region.
Applying these scaling relationships on the six TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Y, Zr, La, Hf) catalysts, we performed the microkinetic simulation and obtained a volcano-type activity trend with respect to Ead(C3H6) (Figure 3d). Notably, the transition state entropies of the two dehydrogenation processes were estimated in the microkinetic simulation considering the high temperature and structural openness of TM1-N3/C, and were approximately equal to the entropy of propane molecule (2/3 SC3H8), which was verified by the slow-growth method (Supporting Note 3). This indicates the high structural flexibility of the transition state for propane dehydrogenation on TM1-N3/C catalysts. (41) The traditional immobile model largely underestimates the transition state entropy by considering only the vibrational entropy and is therefore not applicable to this catalytic system (Figure 3e). The DRC analysis revealed that the desorption of propylene is the rate-determining step on the left side of the volcano curve, while either the first or the second dehydrogenation step becomes the rate-determining step on the right side of the volcano curve (Figure S7). Specifically, the six stable TM1-N3/C catalysts are on the right side of the volcano curve, indicating that the activation of the CH bond is a relatively difficult process, while the desorption of propylene is easy at 900 K (Figure 3d).
To understand how the properties of different TM1-N3/C catalysts affect their performance, we also examined other unstable TM1-N3/C catalysts (Table S4) in addition to the six stable ones. Interestingly, the strong scaling relationships exist only among the TM1-N3/C catalysts that are composed of early TMs (Figure 3ac,3f). This highlights a difference between the traditional and single-atom catalysts. We further demonstrated that the electronegativity of the transition metal is an important factor in determining whether or not the scaling relationship applies to a particular TM1-N3/C, which can inform the design of single-atom catalysts. (33,4749) Subsequently, through individual microkinetic calculations for each unstable TM1-N3/C catalyst, we found that TM1-N3/C (TM = Pt, Ir, W, Os) have higher intrinsic activities, but unfortunately, their potential applications are limited by their instabilities (Figure 3d).
It is also clear from Figure 3d that the estimated TOF for TM1-N3/C is generally large under the zero-conversion approximation. For instance, Zr1-N3/C and Hf1-N3/C exhibit the high intrinsic activities with the TOF of 103106 s1 among these six stable TM1-N3/C catalysts. Considering realistic working conditions, the continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) model was further introduced, and the activity trends varying with space velocity are shown in Figure 4a. The peak of the volcano curve decreases and turns into a plateau as the space velocity decreases, and the width of the plateau is negatively correlated with the space velocity. Specifically, under a typical experimental space velocity of 33.86 m3 mol1 s1 (Supporting Note 4), (9,12,50) Zr1-N3/C and Hf1-N3/C drop to the plateau with the TOF close to those of Sc1-N3/C and Ti1-N3/C. The DRC analysis shows that the catalyst performance on the plateau is mainly limited by the mass transfer process of reactants and products (Figure 4b). Consequently, Figure 4a can actually be understood as a gradual removal of the mass transfer limitation on catalyst performance as the space velocity increases. Finally, four stable SACs, namely, TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf), were filtered out under the typical space velocity of 33.86 m3 mol1 s1.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Activity trend of the TM1-N3/C catalysts with early TMs for PDH at different space velocities (unit: m3 mol1 s1). (b) DRC of each elementary step in PDH and mass transport with respect to the Ead(C3H6) at the space velocity 33.86 m3 mol1 s1 for the TM1-N3/C catalysts with early TMs.
Essentially, the mass transfer limitation mentioned above is derived from the high intrinsic activity for PDH at a typical experimental flow rate, while the excessive PDH activity may be attributed to the following factors: the highly active site derived from the protruding structure of three-coordinated TM1 site, large entropy of surface species (Supporting Note 3), unconsidered side reactions, and unconsidered coverage effect of the dominant intermediates from side reactions. Therefore, the TOFs of the four candidates TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf) for PDH in Figure 4a need to be corrected by considering the potential side reactions and coverage effect, which will be discussed further below.
3.4. Selectivity for Propylene
Undesired side reactions such as the formation of methane (CH4), (3,5154) ethene (C2H4), (52,53) and propyne (C3H4) (12) can occur during PDH due to the overactivation of CC and CH bonds. In the following discussions, we focused on investigating the formation mechanism of these three byproducts using Ti1-N3/C as a model. It is important to note that we did not consider the reaction pathways involving ligand N due to the weak bonding between ligands N and H.
The formation of CH4 and C2H4 can begin with the cracking of the CC bond of the adsorbed C3H7 species, which has a high energy barrier of 1.76 eV. This is followed by the co-adsorption of three species on the Ti1 atom, namely, H, CH3CH, and CH3 (Figure 5a). CH4 is formed by the combination of H and CH3 species with relatively low barriers (0.56, 0.46, and 0.70 eV; green labels in Figure 5a), while the formation of C2H4 requires a higher barrier via the intermolecule H shift of CH3CH species (1.09 and 1.14 eV; blue labels in Figure 5a). In addition, the deep dehydrogenation of the adsorbed C3H6 can directly form C3H4 with the energy barriers as high as 1.76 and 1.47 eV, respectively (Figure 5b).
Figure 5
Figure 5. Schematic formation mechanism of (a) CH4/C2H4 from the C3H7* + H* intermediate and (b) C3H4 from C3H6*. The energy barriers of each elementary step or enthalpy change of desorption processes are marked (unit: eV). (c) TOF distribution of the products at the space velocity of 33.86 m3 mol1 s1.
Based on the detailed reaction mechanism above, we performed the microkinetic analysis and the TOF distribution of these four products is shown in Figure 5c. It reveals that Ti1-N3/C has the high preference for C3H6 formation compared with CH4, C2H4, and C3H4, verifying the high C3H6 selectivity on TM1-N3/C. The underlying reason is the higher energy barriers for CH4, C2H4, and C3H4 formation than those for C3H6 formation, which can result from the steric effect and high reactivity of the protruding structure of the three-coordinated TM1 site. Similarly, the product selectivities of the other three candidates TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Zr, Hf) were also examined, and the results indicate that C3H6 formation is kinetically favorable as that on Ti1-N3/C (Table S5).
3.5. Coverage Effect Induced by Dominant Intermediates
Coke deposition is one of the major causes of catalyst deactivation. This is often caused by over-dehydrogenation of the adsorbed species on the active site. Previous studies have mainly focused on the dehydrogenation of two double-bonded carbon atoms in propylene, while the dehydrogenation of the methyl group has received less attention. (911) However, our calculations show that the barrier of methyl dehydrogenation is much lower than that of the dehydrogenation of two double-bonded carbon atoms on TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf) catalysts, with the energy barriers of 0.87, 0.78, 0.31, and 0.18 eV, respectively (Figure S8). This is because the H atom in the methyl group is an allylic H, which is highly reactive due to the high stability of allyl (C3H5). Thus, the adsorbed propylene can easily be converted to allyl by allylic H abstraction, and the abstraction of the allylic H atom will be considered as the main pathway for further dehydrogenation of propylene in the following discussions.
As shown in Figure 6a, taking Ti1-N3/C as the model catalyst, the allyl could desorb by surpassing the desorption energy of 1.53 eV with a H left on the Ti1 site. In this case, the H-covered Ti1 could further abstract an allylic H from another propylene molecule with a low energy barrier of 0.67 eV and result in one allyl and two H atoms co-adsorbed on Ti1, indicating that the H-covered Ti1-N3/C still has the catalytic ability. The two H atoms can easily couple to form H2 with a negligible energy barrier, and then the active site can be restored after the desorption of allyl by overcoming a high desorption energy of 2.81 eV. Similarly, the formation of allyl and the subsequent reactions on other TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Zr, Hf) catalysts were also examined, and their energy data are shown in Table S7.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Schematic of allylation mechanism of C3H6*. The red values are the energy barriers of elementary step or enthalpy change of allyl desorption (unit: eV). (b) Decomposition of the total TOF on TM1-N3/C (TM = Ti, Zr, Hf) and the TOF of Pt(111) as a benchmark.
By incorporating these above energy data, the microkinetic results suggest that the active site of TM1-N3/C (TM = Ti, Zr, Hf) is primarily covered by allyl at steady state, followed by H* species (Table 1). This is due to the strong adsorption and easy formation of allyl on the catalyst surface. Due to the high stability, the formed allyl can hardly form C1 and C2 species by CC breakage (Table S8). On the other hand, Sc1-N3/C is mainly covered by H* due to the larger energy barrier for the subsequent transformation of H* (Ea = 2.12 eV, Table S7) compared to that of TM1-N3/C (TM = Ti, Zr, Hf) (Ea = 0.78, 0.40, and 0.38 eV, Figure 6a, Table S7). Therefore, in order to evaluate the catalytic activity of these catalysts under real reaction conditions, it is important to consider the formation of allyl and its induced coverage effect on the catalyst surface.
Table 1. Coverages of C3H5*, H*, and Free Site (*) for TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf) Catalysts at Steady State
SAC θ(C3H5*) θ(H*) θ(*)
Sc1-N3/C 3.99 × 109 9.95 × 101 1.57 × 105
Ti1-N3/C 9.57 × 101 2.41 × 102 1.91 × 102
Zr1-N3/C 9.99 × 101 2.71 × 104 4.36 × 106
Hf1-N3/C 9.95 × 101 1.87 × 103 1.61 × 106
Due to the large steric effect of allyl species, the abstraction of α-H of propane by the allyl-covered TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf) gives the high energy barriers of 2.82, 2.40, 1.23, and 1.32 eV, respectively (Figure S9a, Table S10). This suggests that the intrinsic activities of these catalysts for this reaction are low. In contrast, the H-covered TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf) exhibit relatively higher activity for α-H abstraction of propane, with the energy barriers of 2.41, 1.73, 0.89, and 1.04 eV, respectively (Figure S9b, Table S10). The difference in activity is particularly notable in the α-H abstraction of propane, which has an energy barrier of 2.41, 1.73, 0.89, and 1.04 eV, respectively, showing the relatively higher activity of the H-covered Zr1(Hf1)-N3/C for α-H abstraction in comparison with Sc1(Ti1)-N3/C (Figure S9b, Table S10). This can also be verified by the subsequent abstraction of β-H on H-covered TM1-N3/C (TM = Zr, Hf), which gives relatively lower barriers of 0.41 and 0.77 eV, respectively.
Quantitatively, the total TOF of a TM1-N3/C catalyst should be contributed by each state of the TM1 atom covered by each intermediate and formulated as
TOF=
1

intermediate
allintermediates

·
(TOF)
all
intermediates
(2)
where N is the total number of TM1 atoms; Ni and (TOF)i are the active site number of the i-covered TM1 atom and its corresponding intrinsic activity for PDH, respectively. In other words, the TOF contribution from the i-covered TM1 atom for TM1-N3/C catalysts is determined by its intrinsic activity reflected by (TOF)i and its coverage Ni/N. Note that the calculation details for (TOF)i are shown in Supporting Note 5.
After considering the coverage effect of allyl and H* species, the TOFs of four candidates TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf) were corrected to 3.30 × 105 s1, 8.18 × 102 s1, 3.20 × 101 s1, and 2.28 × 101 s1, respectively, and thus, Sc1-N3/C can be first excluded due to the relatively low activity. As shown by the TOF decomposition in Figure 6b, although the in situ formed C3H5* is the dominant intermediate on TM1-N3/C (TM = Ti, Zr, Hf), its contribution to the total TOF as an active site is small due to the low intrinsic activity verified by (TOF)C3H5* (Table S11). For Ti1-N3/C, the activity is mainly contributed by the unoccupied Ti1 site itself, as the small ionic radius of a single Ti1 atom limits its coordination space and makes its intrinsic activity almost negligible once covered, even by a H atom. In contrast, the activity on Zr1(Hf1)-N3/C is mainly derived from the TM1 site with in situ formed H* occupied. The reason can be understood by eq (2), where the intrinsic activities of H-covered TM1-N3/C (TM = Zr, Hf) are appreciable (Table S11) and θ(H*) is much larger than θ(*) (Table 1), while (TOF)C3H5* are rather low. Overall, the coverage effect should be given special consideration for the evaluation of catalytic activity of TM1-N3/C (TM = Zr, Hf).
To provide a benchmark for comparison, the catalytic activity of the Pt(111) surface for PDH was also studied (Table S12), and the TOF obtained from the microkinetic simulation is 2.00 × 102 s1. Surprisingly, it can be seen that the TOFs of the Ti1-N3/C, Zr1-N3/C, and Hf1-N3/C catalysts are, to some extent, better than those of Pt(111), even after considering the side reactions and the coverage effect of dominant intermediates. This suggests that these catalysts have the potential to be practically used (Figure 6b).
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this work, we systematically investigated the catalytic abilities of 3N-coordinated single-atom transition metal catalysts (TM1-N3/C, TM = 3d5d metals) incorporated in the graphene substrate as a new type of catalyst for direct propane dehydrogenation. We found that only those comprising of early TMs (Sc, Ti, Y, Zr, La, Hf) are thermodynamically and kinetically stable and identified the dominant dehydrogenation mechanism. A volcano-type activity trend with the adsorption energy of propylene as the descriptor was discovered, which indicates that TM1-N3/C catalysts have generally high intrinsic activity. After accounting for mass transfer effects, we identified four TM1-N3/C (TM = Sc, Ti, Zr, Hf) catalysts with high activities. On further taking into account the influence of side reactions and the coverage effect of dominant intermediates at the kinetically steady state, we corrected their activities to a realistic level and found that Ti1-N3/C, Zr1-N3/C, and Hf1-N3/C are promising for industrial applications, with even better activity than that of the benchmark Pt(111) surface. In addition, our study demonstrated that the traditional paradigm for evaluating catalyst performance may be inadequate for the structurally open and active SACs and that the in situ reaction conditions and realistic coordination environment of the single-atom metal should be taken into account for accurate assessment.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 