<DOCUMENT>
Preparation of homogeneous super-circular alumina microspheres in microchannels by controlling extraction and motion processes
Highlights
•
Controlling the extraction rate during solidification to change the internal structure of microspheres prepared by sol–gel route.
•
Pore size distribution can be regulated by extraction and TOA distribution processes.
•
Revealing the change of sphericity of microspheres by in situ observations and CFD simulations.
•
Preparation of super-circular alumina microspheres by comprehensively considering extraction and movement processes.
Abstract
The sol–gel technique combined with microfluidics is an effective approach for the preparation of microspheres. The formation and solidification of the sol can be influenced by the motion and extraction processes. The effects of extraction and motion were investigated using a real-time moisture content test, in situ observations, and CFD simulations. The microspheres retained their homogeneous internal structure with a narrow pore distribution when the extraction rate was less than 1 × 10−4 ml/min·mm2, whereas extraction rates greater than 2 × 10−4 ml/min·mm2 resulted in clear hollows and stacking. A continuous phase devoid of extraction capability results in an internal hierarchy and bimodal pore size. Higher surface tension (greater than 4 mN/m) and lower fluid shear forces promoted high sphericity. These novel methods offer a promising approach for the preparation of alumina microspheres with a high spherical degree of 0.987 by matching the motion and extraction curing techniques.
Graphical abstract
Download : Download high-res image (201KB)
Download : Download full-size image
1. Introduction
Mesoporous materials with regulated structures and morphologies have attracted considerable attention owing to their potential applications (Faustini et al., 2014, Liu et al., 2019a). In recent years, the sol–gel method combined with microchannel technology has been an efficient preparation approach for monodisperse microspheres (Xu et al., 2005). Various inorganic microspheres with highly controllable sizes, morphologies, and compositions have been successfully prepared owing to the advantages of high-purity raw materials and the precise control of liquid drops such as SiO2 (Li et al., 2014), opal (Ma, 2019), Al2O3 (Wan et al., 2018, Yi et al., 2019), and ZrO2 (Liang et al., 2021, Rui et al., 2019). Alumina exhibits superior performance, including suitable acidic and basic sites (Xu et al., 2019), excellent chemical and thermal stability (Yuan et al., 2008), and high metal interaction strength (Zhang et al., 2014). Therefore, it is considered an important active metal support for catalytic reactions such as continuous reforming (Carvalho et al., 2012), anthraquinone hydrogenation (Yuan et al., 2016), and propane dehydrogenation (Liu et al., 2016). Consequently, optimization of the preparation settings for high-performance alumina microspheres in terms of efficiency and controllability has emerged as a key challenge.
The preparation of microspheres in microchannels using the sol–gel method can be divided into two stages: droplet generation and solidification. Monodisperse droplets were formed under the fluid shear force provided by microfluidic devices with high sphericity under the effect of surface tension. Subsequently, the sol droplets gradually solidified into solid microspheres during motion in the microchannels (Chu et al., 2007, Wang et al., 2019). Thus, the solidification and motional stress of the sol droplets are key parameters that significantly affect the structure and morphology of the microspheres. Evaporation and removal of the solvent from the sol droplet are necessary to achieve complete solidification (Seo et al., 2005) with a significant spillover effect on the formation and internal structure of the microspheres. Liu et al. revealed the influence of solvent evaporation rate on the internal structure of microspheres by comparing the distribution of large and small colloids in the microspheres at different evaporation rates (Liu et al., 2019b). The rate of evaporation affected the distribution of colloids in the supraparticles. Slow evaporation resulted in evenly distributed colloids with similar proportions of small and large particles, whereas fast evaporation led to a clear separation, where small colloids formed the shell and large colloids were concentrated in the core. Ju et al. reported that solvent extraction in the microfluidic process affects the internal structure of microspheres (Ju et al., 2014). The difference in the extraction rates was determined using liquid paraffin and a fatty acid methyl ester double-layer solution. During solidification, the difference between the diffusion rates of the solvent and silica nanoparticles in the droplets determines the formation of solid or hollow structures. In addition, the sol particles in the droplet moved towards the extraction direction. In addition, the long polymerization chain containing hydrogen bonds uniformly enriches the droplet surface and forms a layered structure during shrinkage in the extraction process (Choi et al., 2020).
Simultaneously, the spherical degree is significantly affected by the force during the motion process in the microchannels. The effect of surface tension favors spherical particles (Fang et al., 2012), while the migration of surfactants and revision of the surface tension distribution lead to the clear deformation of droplets (Santra et al., 2018). Additionally, the flow shear force causes the droplets to stretch and deform along the flow direction (Zhang et al., 2022). In the generation state, the droplet exhibits evident liquid level fluctuations and flow field disorder owing to inertial and viscous forces (Shen et al., 2020). These factors play important roles in the morphology of the solidified microspheres.
In addition to high-performance Al2O3 microspheres, inorganic microspheres with homogeneous structures and high sphericity have important applications in fluidized bed catalyst supports (Zhang et al., 2021), high-precision optical devices (Montanarella et al., 2018), photonic crystals (Chen et al., 2018), hydrogen storage materials (Gao et al., 2011), and other fields. The preparation of homogeneous super-circular inorganic microspheres is important because of the demand for high-end products. There have been some studies on improving the homogeneity and sphericity of microspheres. Zhang et al. focused on the uniformity of gel process (Zhang et al., 2013). The gel initiator was evenly spatially distributed by constructing a double microemulsion, which led to a significant improvement in the sphericity and size uniformity of the zirconia microspheres. Kim et al. considered the relationship between extraction and solidification (Kim et al., 2021). The density, size, sphericity, morphology, and other structural characteristics of the supraparticles were well-controlled by balancing the solvent removal rate and initial concentration of the self-assembled particles during the assembly process with excellent sphericity (>98%). In addition, the regulation of parameters such as the flow rate and channel structure can improve the mixing and gel rate of reagents, which is conducive to the preparation of microspheres with good spherical shapes, uniform internal structures, and narrow size distributions (Han et al., 2022, Wang et al., 2019). However, these analyses were based on static results. There are few reports on the homogeneous super-circular characteristics of inorganic microspheres obtained by the dynamic transition process as a combination of extraction rate and fluidic motion. In this paper, we propose a novel characterization method that combines real-time moisture analysis and in situ observation to achieve a space–time balance of solidification and motion processes during the preparation of microspheres. In addition, the synergies of the antagonistic relationship between surface tension and shear force during the motion process and the migration of aluminum chains during the water extraction process on the final morphology and structure of microspheres prepared by the sol–gel method in microchannels were revealed and compared with those in previous studies. In this paper, we propose a novel characterization method that combines real-time moisture analysis and in situ observation to achieve a space–time balance of solidification and motion processes during the preparation of microspheres.
This study describes the design and assembly of a microfluidic system comprising a droplet generation module with a coaxial microchannel and a high-speed charge-coupled device (HS-CCD) camera-based in situ observation module, as well as the fabrication of submillimeter alumina microspheres using the sol–gel method. The system was used to examine the rate of water extraction from the continuous phase and the movement and deformation of the sol droplets in the microchannel. The impact of continuous phase extraction, TOA distribution, and deformation caused by surface tension and fluid shear forces on microsphere morphology, internal structure, pore size distribution, and sphericity was analyzed by combining extraction rate calculations with in situ observations and CFD simulations. The synergistic effects of the extraction and motion processes on the morphology and uniformity of the microspheres were explained. In addition, homogeneous super-circular alumina microspheres were prepared using an organic reagent with a stable and slow water extraction rate as the continuous phase main body and by optimizing the interfacial tension with the addition of a surface-active agent. In addition, we believe that our method can provide new regulatory measures for the preparation of other super-circular inorganic microspheres using the sol–gel method.
2. Experimental Section
2.1. Chemicals
Aluminum tri-sec-butoxide (ATSB, 99%) was supplied by Anhui Zesheng Technology Co., Ltd. (China). Methylcellulose (MC, 15 mPa·s) was purchased from Shanghai Aladdin Biochemical Technology Co., ltd. (China). Hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA), Span 85, triocylamine (TOA, 90%), and toluidine blue O were purchased from Shanghai Meryer Chemical Technology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China). Butyl acetate (99.5%), butyl butyrate (≥99%), ethyl oleate (75%, GC), and N-decane (99%) were supplied by Shanghai Macklin Biochemical Co., Ltd. (China). Iodine (99.99% purity) was acquired from Jiangsu Aikon Biopharmaceutical R&D Co., Ltd. (China). Tetrachloromethane (CCl4, 99.5%, water ≤ 50 ppm), ethyl acetate (≥99.5%), and ethanol (≥99.7%) were obtained from Shanghai Titan Scientific Co., ltd. (China). Nitric acid (10 wt%, dissolved in deionized water) was supplied by Tongguang Fine Chemicals Inc. (China). All chemicals were used as received without further purification. Deionized water was used throughout the study.
2.2. Experimental setup
Fig. 1 shows the microfluidic system used in this study, which consists of a coaxial microchannel as the sol droplet generation module, a serpentine microchannel with an HS-CCD camera as the droplet in situ observation module, and a heating system. The sol droplet generation coaxial microchannel consisted of two pieces of poly (methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) plates (80 × 50 × 3 mm) that were agglutinated together with a heat press and had a main channel (2 mm) and two side channels (1.2 mm). At the end of the main channel, a widened channel (2.4 mm) was used to connect the external pipelines. A stainless-steel needle (25 mm long, 0.4 mm ID × 0.71 mm OD) and a short polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) tube (0.05 m long, 2 mm ID × 2.4 mm OD) were embedded on the inlet and outlet of the main channel, respectively. Two syringe pumps were connected to microchannel inlets. The other end of the short PTFE tube was connected to the droplet in situ observation microchannel, which consisted of two pieces of PMMA plates (80 mm × 80 mm × 3 mm) that were agglutinated simultaneously with 15 serpentine structures (60 mm length × 2 mm ID of a straight segment, and 5 mm spacing between two straight tubes). An HS-CCD camera was placed on top of the channel, and a glass heating plate with a circulating water bath and light source was placed under the channel. At the end of the in situ observation module, a long PTFE tube (4 m long used in the in situ observation process, and 7 m long used in the moisture content test without in situ observation module, 2 mm ID × 2.4 mm OD) was embedded and placed in a thermostatic water bath to achieve the solidification process. A beaker sealed with plastic wrap was placed in the outer tube of a long PTFE tube in a water bath as a product-receiving container.
Download : Download high-res image (243KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Experimental device for the preparation and in situ observation of γ-alumina spheres.
2.3. Preparation of the alumina microspheres
Previous research performed in our lab proposed a novel and simple method for fabricating alumina microspheres by integrating the sol–gel route into microchannels, including formulas for the dispersed aqueous phase and continuous oil phases. The dispersed aqueous phase was prepared as described in a previous work (Yi et al., 2019). The continuous oil phase consisted of the main oil phase, Span 85, and the pore expansion agent TOA. The compositions of the oil phases are listed in Table 1.
Table 1. Continuous oil phase composition used in the experiment (mass percentage, wt%).
Continuous phase Main oil phase Span 85 TOA
C-1 88.5 % Butyl acetate 1.5 % 10 wt%
C-2 88.5 % Butyl butyrate 1.5 %
C-3 88.5 % Ethyl oleate 1.5 %
C-4 88.5 % N-decane 1.5 %
C-5 89 % Ethyl oleate 1 %
C-6 88 % Ethyl oleate 2 %
C-7 87 % Ethyl oleate 3 %
C-8 86 % Ethyl oleate 4 %
C-9 85 % Ethyl oleate + 3 % Ethyl acetate 2 %
C-10 78 % Ethyl oleate + 10 % Ethyl acetate 2 %
C-11 68 % Ethyl oleate + 20 % Ethyl acetate 2 %
C-12 48 % Ethyl oleate + 40 % Ethyl acetate 2 %
C-13 85.12 % Ethyl oleate + 3 % Ethyl acetate 1.88 %
C-14 82.2 % Ethyl oleate + 10 % Ethyl acetate 1.8 %
C-15 78.38 % Ethyl oleate + 20 % Ethyl acetate 1.62 %
The continuous and dispersed phases were injected into the microchannel system at flow rates of 3.2 and 0.064 ml/min, respectively (ratio of 50:1) using two syringe pumps. A sol droplet was generated in the droplet generation module owing to the shear force. The circulating water bath and thermostatic water bath with a heating temperature of 80 °C were used to heat the sol droplets for initial solidification. The initial microspheres with oil phase flowed into a sealed beaker placed in the water bath pot and aged at 80 °C for 4 h until full gel was formed. Then we removed the oil phase and continued drying at 80 °C for 12 h. Subsequently, the alumina microspheres were obtained after washing with ethyl acetate, drying, and calcination at 600 °C for 6 h in a muffle furnace, with a 6 h heating from room temperature to 600 °C.
2.4. Determination of TOA distribution coefficient
To establish a standard curve for calibration, 0.0215 g of TOA was added to 42.692 g of CCl4 to obtain a diluted solution of TOA-CCl4. Eight different groups of diluted TOA-CCl4 solutions were precisely weighed from 0.05 to 5.0 g and added into 50 ml volumetric flasks. Next, 1 ml (1 g/L) of the I2-ethanol solution was added to the eight volumetric flasks. Subsequently, CCl4 was added to the volumetric flasks to obtain 50 ml of solution. The unbonded lone pair of electrons in the nitrogen element of TOA can generate a transition of n-electron excitation to the anti-bond orbital, which causes a UV–visible absorption peak at 208 nm(Gai et al., 2018). In addition, the absorption peak generated by TOA shifts towards longer wavelengths and increases the absorption intensity because of the addition of iodine, such as iodine and triethylamine, which can form a 1:1 charge transfer compound in n-heptane(Bent, 1968). Therefore, the charge transfer compound formed by iodine and TOA could generate a UV absorption spectrum at 294–295 nm. In addition, the absorbance of a compound is proportional to its content within a certain range. Therefore, ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy (UV–Vis) was used to obtain the TOA content and its standard curve.
To calculate the distribution coefficient of TOA, 50 ml of deionized water was added to the four conical flasks. Next, 50 ml of butyl acetate, butyl butyrate, ethyl oleate, and n-decane were added to four different conical flasks. After shaking in the conical flasks at a constant temperature of 80 °C for 2 h, the solution was transferred to a separated oil–water mixture. Next, 10 g of the water phase and 10 g of the oil phase were removed from the flask and added to a new clean flask. TOA (1 g) was added to a new flask. After shaking again at 80 °C for 2 h, a new oil–water stratified solution was shifted. Then, 1 g of the water phase from the new flask is added into 4.8 ml of CCl4 and 0.2 ml (1 g/L) of I2–ethanol solution to extract TOA from the aqueous phase into CCl4. The aqueous phase was then removed, and the concentration of TOA in CCl4 was determined using UV–Vis spectroscopy.
2.5. Characterization
The size, morphology, and pore structure of the alumina microspheres were observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM, JEOL JSM7401, Japan, and Hitachi TM3000, Japan). The specific surface area was determined using the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller method (BET, Quantachrome QUADRASORB SI, USA), and the pore volume and pore size distribution were calculated from the desorption branch of the isotherm, as measured using the Barrett–Joyner–Halenda method (BJH). The surface tension between the dispersed phase and the different continuous phases was measured using a contact angle tester (DataPhysics OCA2O, Germany). The morphology of the sol droplets in the microchannel and the size and shrinkage of the sol microspheres during solidification were observed using a high-speed charge-coupled device camera (Revealer ISP504C, China). The concentration was measured using an ultraviolet–visible spectrophotometer (SHIMADZU UV-2450, Japan). The moisture content of the continuous phase was determined using an automatic moisture titrator (Anting ZSD-2, China).
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Water extraction effect
One of the key steps in the sol–gel preparation method is solvent removal, which is critical for the conversion of microspheres from the sol state to the gel state (Carroll et al., 2008, Chu et al., 2007). In this experiment, butyl acetate, butyl butyrate, ethyl oleate, and n-decane (C-1 to C-4) were used as continuous oil phases with different water extraction capacities. To analyze the influence of moisture migration on the microspheres, an HS-CCD camera was used to capture images of the microspheres at different times, which were then used to investigate the size and morphology of the microspheres. Using four different oil phases, images of the microspheres were taken during the preparation process at intervals of 0, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, and 4 h. The time point at which the microspheres emerged from the 7 m long PTFE tube was determined to be 0 h. The microspheres were photographed again at the start of the drying process after 4 h of aging, and the continuous phase was removed. Once completely dried and calcined for 12 h, the resulting alumina microspheres were characterized using SEM, and the results are shown in Fig. 2. The sizes of the microspheres at various intervals were calculated, and the results are shown in Fig. S1. For C-1 and C-2, which have relatively strong water extraction abilities, the microspheres significantly shrank in a short period of time because of the rapid water extraction, which led to a hollow phenomenon, and the fraction of hollow particles increased with time. Specifically, for the oil phases with higher extraction rates, such as C-1, the proportion of hollow particles was notably larger, with clear breakage and cracking observed after 30 min, as shown in Fig. 2a and 2b. In contrast, for the C-3 phase, which has a weaker extraction ability, the droplet size shrinks at a slower rate without any hollowing or crushing. In addition, the microspheres had a denser appearance after 4 h, indicating that the sol microspheres were sufficiently gel-like and solidified. The oil phase with anhydrous extraction capacity, such as C-4, caused almost no shrinkage compared to the initially solidified microspheres until the end of the aging process. However, as water accumulated, cracks formed on the surfaces of the microspheres, as shown in Fig. 2d. The SEM images also confirm the results of the HS-CCD observation, as shown in Fig. 2.
Download : Download high-res image (712KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. HS-CCD and SEM images of alumina microspheres produced by continuous phase with different water extraction rates at (1–3) 0, 0.5, and 4 h, respectively, and (4) the microspheres after calcination. Panels (a-d) correspond to the use of different oil phases C-1 to C-4, respectively.
Based on changes in the size of the microspheres, as shown in Fig. S1, the microspheres in C-1 and C-2 completed all dehydration and shrinkage processes within 1 h. Thus, the partially formed microspheres were hollow and broken during the rapid and violent water extraction. The size change of the microspheres prepared using C-3 was relatively uniform during the shrinking process owing to the stable and low-speed water extraction. Therefore, the microspheres maintain a uniform internal structure and continue to remove any remaining water after drying. The microspheres synthesized using C-4 exhibited almost no size shrinkage within 4 h, which led to the accumulation of a large amount of water on the surface of the microspheres. This causes rapid moisture removal from the surface of the microspheres during drying, resulting in cracking.
To calculate the extraction capability of various continuous phases, a real-time moisture content test was performed at different positions within the long PTFE tube during both the microsphere preparation and aging stages, as shown in Fig. 3. Fig. 3a shows the oil phase conditions at various distances within the microchannel of the C-1 phase. The degree of turbidity indicates the water content in the oil phase (because the extracted water was not fully dissolved, small droplets and turbidity were observed in the oil phase). The turbidity level increased from 0 to 3 m, reaching its peak at 3.5 m. Fig. 3b illustrates the water content of C-1 to C-3 at different times during the aging process by analyzing a specific continuous phase from the beaker containing previously solidified microspheres, which was tested within 0–4 h. The water content of C-1 and C-2 had already achieved maxima solubility; therefore, the peak water content appeared at 0 h. Then, the supersaturated water in the oil phase evaporated, while water extraction in the microspheres and evaporation condensation of the continuous phase occurred simultaneously. Hence, the water content in the continuous phase decreased. In addition to the conditions presented in Fig. 2 and Fig. S1, the water content in C-1 rapidly decreased because of rapid water extraction and shrinkage. The water content of C-3 was maintained at 0.2 wt%, confirming that the extraction and evaporation were in dynamic equilibrium. The real-time continuous phase moisture content test method was used to analyze the water content of the continuous phase at different positions in the microchannel. Of note, the water content in C-4 phase could not be detected due to the low water content, which indirectly indicated that C-4 phase had almost no water extraction ability. Fig. 3c shows that the water content of C-1 and C-2 rapidly increased within 0–3.5 m and maintained a steady state after 3.5 m. The water content at C-3 steadily increased, indicating that the water extraction process was relatively stable. To accurately analyze the influence of the extraction rate of water in different continuous phases on the morphology of the microspheres, the extraction rate per unit surface area of the C-2 and C-3 phases in Fig. 3c was calculated. The formula is as follows:
Download : Download high-res image (514KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. The extraction process analyzed by the real-time continuous phase moisture content test. (a) The oil phase obtained at different positions in a long PTFE tube of the C-1 phase, (b) the moisture content of the C-1 to C-3 phases at different times during aging at 80 °C, (c) the moisture content of the C-1 to C-3 phases obtained at different positions in 7 m long PTFE tube, and (d1) the extraction rate fitting curve of the C-3 and (d2) C-2 phases.
is the extraction rate per unit surface area of microspheres (ml/min·mm2).
is the change rate of the continuous phase water content per unit distance (gwater /goil·m) and is the slope of the fitting curve. The maximum slope was considered as the main stage of the water extraction process for C-2 (slope of 0.5–2 m), and a slope of 0–7 m linear fitting was used for C-3.
is the continuous phase flow rate (m/min), and
is the volume of the continuous phase in 1 min (ml).
is the radius (mm) of the sol microspheres, which were photographed in the droplet-generation microchannel using an HS-CCD camera.
and
are the density of oil phase and pure water, respectively, and C-2 = 0.867 g/ml, C-3 = 0.876 g/ml, and water = 1 g/ml. According to the calculation results, the
is 2.52 × 10−4 ml/min·mm2 for C-2, yet
is 9.70 × 10−5 ml/min·mm2 for C-3. According to the morphology of microspheres in Fig. 2 and the calculation results of extraction rate, it can be concluded that when the
is less than 1 × 10−4 ml/min·mm2, a stable extraction process can ensure the integrity and uniform solidification of microspheres. Otherwise,
greater than 2 × 10−4 ml/min·mm2 will result in cracking and hollowing.
The intersecting surfaces of the microspheres were characterized using SEM, and the obtained results are shown in Fig. 4a–d. Hollow particles appeared on the surfaces of the C-1 and C-2 oil phases with high extraction capacities. At higher magnification, the microspheres clearly exhibited a layer-by-layer structure. For the C-3 oil phase with a slow extraction rate, the interiors of the microspheres were relatively dense and uniform without cracking or becoming hollow. However, there were two layers inside the microspheres (a uniform and dense inner layer and a sparse outer layer for the oil phase), which had an almost anhydrous extraction capacity similar to that of C-4. In addition, it can be clearly observed in the red circle of the SEM image in Fig. 4d that small voids were generated inside and distributed in the outer layer. The extraction effect of the continuous phase causes the solvent in the droplets to gradually diffuse into the extractant, significantly changing the internal structure and morphology of the microspheres (Ju et al., 2014). Combined with the abovementioned extraction process, we can preliminarily speculate about the role of the sol–gel process and the CPE effect on the morphology of the microspheres. Under the strong extraction effect, as shown in Fig. 4e, the internal water molecules rapidly migrated outward and provided the driving force for the MC-Al chain to move outward, resulting in internal hollowness and unevenness of the MC-Al chain, causing cracking from the inside out. Simultaneously, the chains migrate to the outer layer of the microspheres and gradually stack (Choi et al., 2020), forming a ring structure after curing and calcination. In the continuous phase with a relatively moderate extraction rate, like in Fig. 4f, the water in the sol evenly migrated outward without disturbing the internal Al-MC chain; thus, the microspheres were more homogeneous and complete. For the continuous phase with almost no extraction effect, as shown in Fig. 4g, the internal water molecules could not migrate to the continuous phase and continuously accumulated on the surface. While the Al-MC chains mostly gathered and stacked in the middle of the droplets until the drying stage, the external water of the droplets quickly left the surface. The vacant parts cannot be supplemented in a timely manner by the sol chains, resulting in a two-layer structure for the formed microspheres, which are relatively dense inside and porous outside.
Download : Download high-res image (610KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. SEM images and a schematic illustration of alumina microsphere solidification in continuous phase with different extraction rates. Panels (a)–(d) correspond to the use of C-1 to C-4 phases as the continuous phase, respectively, and panels (e)–(g) correspond to the solidification scheme in a continuous phase with different extraction rates.
3.2. Pore structure distribution
The pore structures and size distributions of the alumina microspheres prepared with various continuous phases were evaluated by N2 physical adsorption characterization. The nitrogen adsorption–desorption isotherm is shown in Fig. 5a. The isotherm adsorption curve is a typical IV adsorption curve with a clear H1 hysteresis loop, indicating that the sample is a typical mesoporous material. The H1 hysteresis loop of C-1 shows a slight shift towards the H2 loop, indicating the presence of irregular pores in the material (Sing et al., 1985). The P/P0 of the adsorption–desorption curve was steeper and more uniform at 0.6–0.9 from C-1 to C-3, resulting in a more uniform pore size distribution (Ma et al., 2020). The uniformity of the distribution for C-4 was found to be lower than that for C-3 owing to a non-parallel curve. This is further supported by the aperture distribution calculated using the BJH method in Fig. 5c. Furthermore, the pore sizes of C-1 to C-3 gradually increased, whereas those of C-4 displayed a bimodal pore size distribution. The relationship between the pore volume and the specific surface area of the alumina microspheres is shown in Fig. 5b and Table 2. In addition, the pore sizes of C-1 to C-3 gradually increased, whereas C-4 exhibited a bimodal pore size distribution. The relationship between the pore volume and the specific surface area of the alumina microspheres is shown in Fig. 5b and Table 2.
Download : Download high-res image (290KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Pore spatial distribution and TOA distribution of alumina microspheres prepared in different continuous phases. Panels (a–c) correspond to the isotherms, BET surface area, and pore volume, as well as the pore size distribution profiles of C-1 to C-4, respectively, and panel (d) shows the UV absorption curve corresponding to TOA in the aqueous phase.
Table 2. Average pore diameter, BET specific surface area, and pore volume of synthetic microspheres in different continuous phases.
Continuous phase Average pore diameter (nm) Surface area (m2/ g) Pore volume (cm3/g)
C-1 8.79 292.63 0.651
C-2 10.15 307.39 0.742
C-3 13.15 261.77 0.812
C-4 11.69 283.44 0.774
In our previous study, we found that accelerating the nitric acid extraction using TOA enhanced the solidification process. In contrast, TOA induced swelling in the MC pore-forming agent, leading to changes in the pore distribution in the microspheres (Yi et al., 2019). The absorption spectrum in the ultraviolet light region was detected for the compound formed by iodine and TOA in CCl4 as shown in Section 2.4. Therefore, the concentration of TOA in the aqueous phase was detected using UV–Vis spectroscopy, whereas the distribution capacity of TOA in water was determined based on the absorption peak at 294 nm. The experimental results are shown in Fig. S2, and a standard curve was established for the detection using this method. According to the UV absorption curve in Fig. 5d, the absorption peak of TOA was the smallest for the C-3 oil phase, with the smallest specific surface area. The UV absorption peaks of C-2, C-1, and C-4 gradually increased but were not fully aligned with the changes in the specific surface area, as shown in Table 3. Consequently, the relationship between the continuous phase and the pore structure of alumina microspheres prepared using the sol–gel method is intricate.
Table 3. Surface tension relative to water, sphericity, and coefficient of variation of the microspheres prepared using different continuous phases.
Continuous phase Surface tension (mN/m) Sphericity (dmin/dmax) Coefficient variation (%)
C-3 4.35 0.978 2.28
C-5 6.29 0.976 2.29
C-6 3.92 0.968 1.89
C-7 3.73 0.942 1.91
C-8 3.36 0.924 1.69
C-9 3.81 0.947 2.31
C-10 3.72 0.942 2.71
C-11 3.39 0.915 2.47
C-13 3.94 0.964 2.11
C-14 3.92 0.969 2.51
C-15 3.91 0.968 2.72
Based on the abovementioned experimental results and analysis of the water extraction capacity of the four continuous phases in Section 3.1, it can be concluded that the extraction effect and TOA distribution process play pivotal roles in controlling the specific surface area and pore volume. Organic amines can enter the aqueous phase through the oil–water interface and enter the interior of the methylcellulose micelles to achieve swelling. After swelling with organic amines, the MC fibers expand and unwind in the sol to form a rich pore structure (Yi et al., 2022). The stronger TOA distribution process affected the maximum amount of TOA entering the sol, resulting in a greater amount of methylcellulose micelle swelling and more pores in the microspheres. On the other hand, the faster rate of water extraction affected the interaction time between TOA and MC, which results in faster removal of water from the sol, thereby shortening the contact time between TOA and MC micelles in the aqueous phase and losing the opportunity to contact TOA molecules before swelling to the maximum value, which results in insufficient swelling. The strong distribution of TOA in C-1 causes more MC micelles to swell and results in a larger specific surface area. However, their strong water extraction ability results in short-term swelling of the MC micelles, causing insufficient swelling and a small pore diameter and volume. For C-2, which had a weaker distribution capacity, the low water extraction capacity allowed more time for contact with the TOA and MC micelles, resulting in an increase in the pore volume. The C-3 oil phase caused fewer MC micelles to swell and had the lowest specific surface area due to the weakest distribution process. However, the lower water extraction rate allowed the TOA to fully contact and swell with the MC, leading to the highest pore diameter and pore volume. C-4, despite having the strongest distribution capacity, lacked a water extraction ability. As a result, water was mostly concentrated on the surface, and the MC micelles were centered. This led to the full swelling of TOA and MC on the surface and a larger pore size. However, the concentration of Al-MC chains and the lack of water in the interior make it difficult for TOA to penetrate and expand the pores with MC, resulting in smaller pores in the interior, as indicated by the double pore size distribution in Fig. 5c.
3.3. Motion and deformation
The force of motion and solidification of the sol in the microchannels significantly influenced the morphology of the final microspheres. Surface tension is an important stress at the interface of the two phases and plays a key role in the process of droplet formation, falling off, and movement. In this experiment, the surface tension was investigated by adding Span 85 and ethyl acetate to the continuous phase. Eleven groups of continuous phases (C-3, C-5 to C-11, and C-13 to C-15) were used in the experiments. The morphology of the alumina microspheres in various continuous phases was observed using SEM, and the sphericity was quantified to determine the effect of surface tension on the sphericity and coefficient of variation (CV). The obtained results are shown in Table 3 and Fig. 6. A contact angle tester was used to characterize the surface tension values between the different continuous and water phases, as shown in Fig. S3. Because the experimental data were two-dimensional photographs, the sphericity in this study was determined by dividing the maximum inscribed circle diameter
by the smallest circumscribed circle diameter
. The formula is as follows:
Download : Download high-res image (324KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. (a–d) SEM images of γ-alumina microspheres with different sphericity degree (dmin/dmax) prepared by C-6, C-8, C-11, and C-15. (e) The relationship of microspheres in different continuous phases between surface tension and elliptical and circular shapes.
As shown in Fig. 6a, a larger surface tension maintained the sphericity of the microspheres with a low mass fraction of Span 85. However, with an increase in the mass fraction of Span 85, the surface tension caused poor sphericity, as shown in Fig. 6b. This trend can be observed in the experimental data (red dots) in Fig. 6e. After the addition of 20 wt% ethyl acetate, the interfacial tension decreased compared with that of C-6, and the sphericity simultaneously decreased, as indicated by the black dots. The microsphere sphericity changed in the same manner as when Span 85 was added. To further confirm that the sphericity of microspheres was closely related to the surface tension, the mass fraction of Span 85 in the continuous phase was reduced while adding more ethyl acetate, so that the interfacial tension between the two phases was maintained at approximately 3.91 mN/m (C6, C13, C14, C15). The sphericity of the microspheres was consistent, as indicated by the blue data points in Fig. 6e. It can be proven that surface tension was the most important factor affecting the sphericity of microspheres. The CV of the alumina microspheres was generally maintained at 0.02, as shown in Fig. 6f, which indicates that the interfacial tension had no significant effect on the uniformity of the microsphere size.
To visualize the motion and deformation of the microspheres from their formation to the initial curing process, an HS-CCD camera was used for in situ observation and characterization. The results are shown in Fig. 7 and Fig. S4. Five observation points were selected: the position at which the droplet left the needle (0 m), the end (0.05 m) of the droplet generation microchannel, and the entrance (0.1 m), middle (0.5 m), and end (0.9 m) of the droplet observation module. The sphericity of the droplet was initially inadequate immediately after it was discharged from the needle because of the disturbance caused by the surrounding fluid and rebound phenomenon. The droplet sphericity increased as the motion continued, reaching its maximum value at 0.1 m. However, if the droplets continued their movement without solidifying, the sphericity would decrease, as shown by the solid line. Hot water was introduced into a glass heating plate at 0.1 m to heat the sol droplets. The PH temperature composite solidification caused rapid solidification of the liquid droplets owing to the inverse temperature sensitivity of MC and the thermal decomposition of HMTA. The shell is preliminarily shaped with a maximum sphericity in 0.1 m of the dotted line. With the addition of Span 85 (from C-5 to C-8), the decrease in the two-phase surface tension led to low sphericity of the microspheres. As shown in Fig. S4, the droplets gradually became bullet-shaped owing to gradual stretching along the flow direction. When the surface tension of the continuous phase is low, the drop can be stretched to a greater extent.
Download : Download high-res image (91KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Deformation of droplets in a microchannel with different surface tensions in the C-5 to C-8 continuous phase. The full line represents the deformation of microspheres without heating and after heating at 0.1 m of the dotted line.
Furthermore, the deformation of the microspheres was the same as when adding Span 85 by changing the oil–water interface affinity of ethyl acetate to alter the surface tension. As shown in Fig. 8a, from C-9 to C-12, the degree of deformation of the droplet increased, and the elliptical stretching became more pronounced. As the flow rate of the continuous phase increased, the size of the microspheres decreased, whereas the flow rate of the dispersed phase was kept constant at 0.064 ml/min, and the surface tension was maintained. In addition, the deformation of the microspheres was the same as when adding Span 85 by changing the oil–water interface affinity of ethyl acetate to alter the surface tension. From C-9 to C-12, the degree of deformation of the droplet gradually increased and the axially stretched ellipse worsened, as shown in Fig. 8a. With an increase in the continuous phase flow rate, the size of the microspheres gradually decreased while maintaining the flow rate of the dispersed phase at 0.064 ml/min and surface tension. Simultaneously, a higher flow rate leads to a stronger shear force along the direction of motion. The microspheres are stretched in the axial direction to form elliptical droplets, as shown in Fig. 8c. The motion analysis software supplied with the HS-CCD camera was used to measure the velocities of the liquid droplets in the channel at different flow velocities, as shown in Fig. 8d. The droplets progressively accelerated to their maximum speed before constantly decelerating after separation when the main body of the dispersed phase was disconnected, leading to greater distortion of the droplet during its initial formation close to the needle. As the flow rate increased, the microsphere deceleration time in the channel increased, with a significant increase in deformation.
Download : Download high-res image (283KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. The morphology obtained by changing ethyl acetate and flow velocity microspheres. Panels (a1–a4) show the HS-CCD images (at 0.05 m in the microchannel) of microspheres in C-9 to C-12, respectively, (b) the deformation of droplets from C-9 to C-12, (c) HS-CCD images (at 0.05 m in the microchannel) of microspheres of Qc = 2.0, 3.2, 4.8, 6.0 ml/min respectively (the dispersed phase flow Qd = 0.064 ml/min), and (d) the velocity of liquid drop at 400 ms of different continuous phase flow rate.
A CFD simulation (using COMSOL) was performed to reveal the flow field distribution and deformation during droplet formation and movement, as shown in Fig. 9. The physical properties (involving density = 876 kg/m3, viscosity = 6.79 mPa·s, and interfacial tensions = 5.01 mN/m as high surface tension oil phase, as well as density = 881 kg/m3, viscosity = 6.95 mPa·s, and interfacial tensions = 3.36 mN/m as low surface tension oil phase) were fixed in the simulation.
Download : Download high-res image (390KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. CFD simulation of the microsphere motion and flow field distribution at different surface tensions. Panels (a) and (b) represent the flow rate and droplet deformation for low surface tension and high surface tension, respectively. Panels (c) and (d) correspond to the flow field distribution of low surface tension and high surface tension, respectively. Panel (e) shows the sol droplet size change.
The initial stages of droplet formation exhibited a non-uniform flow velocity, as shown in Fig. 9a and 9b. In addition, there was substantial rebound of the droplets in the direction of motion. Following rebound, the droplet eventually stabilized into a bullet shape. Fig. 9c and 9d show the distribution of the flow field. At a low surface tension, the external flow field of the droplet was more stable, and the single internal flow field exhibited an irregular pattern. In comparison to a low surface tension, when the surface tension was high, the fluctuation of the external flow field was more evident, yet the internal velocity gradient of the droplet was smaller. However, a higher surface tension played a role in preserving the stability of the droplet interface and interior, despite the unsteady exterior flow field. The velocity difference between the center of the channel and the wall increased after the droplet had stabilized, which occurred possibly because the mobility of the uncured sol droplets in the channel over time led to more significant distortion. Fig. 9e illustrates the change in the sol droplet size owing to variations in surface tension. The nearly spherical droplet with high surface tension was larger (equivalent diameter/central axis length = 0.991) than that with low surface tension (equivalent diameter/central axis length = 0.986).
The abovementioned experimental results revealed that the deformation of microspheres in the microchannel was significantly affected by the antagonism between surface tension and fluid shear force. In the initial stage, the high-speed moving microsphere, coupled with the instability of the external fluid flow rate, was subjected to a relatively high shear force, resulting in poor axial sphericity of the microspheres. During the motion process, the velocity of the microspheres decreased and gradually stabilized, and the surface tension occupied the dominant position. The sphericity of the microspheres increased under the effect of surface tension. However, mass transfer processes, such as water extraction and TOA distribution between the droplet and external fluid, gradually become significant, causing an uneven distribution of tension on the droplet surface and greater deformation during the movement process (Wang et al., 2011). However, the greater is the velocity difference between the center and outer walls, the greater is the deformation after a long motion process.
3.4. Preparation of super-circular alumina microspheres
The water extraction effect of the continuous phase, relationship between the surface tension and fluid shear force, and selection of the position for heating and solidification significantly affected the sphericity of the final microspheres. Thus, we chose slowly stabilized water extraction oil ethyl oleate as the main body of the continuous phase with the addition of 1.5 wt% Span 85 to maintain an interfacial surface tension of 4.35 mN/m. The two-phase flow ratio was set to 30:1 to reduce the shear force. Here, 0.1 m was selected as the heating position, which resulted in the formation of homogeneous super-circular alumina microspheres, as shown in Fig. 10. The degree of sphericity was within the range of 0.97–1 even though the average sphericity was up to 0.987. The diameter of the microspheres was approximately 450 μm with a nearly round shape. The CV was only 1.92%, with a narrow particle size distribution.
Download : Download high-res image (205KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. SEM images of the homogeneous super-circular alumina microspheres.
4. Conclusion
In this study, we report a preparation and regulation method for homogeneous super-circular alumina microspheres using the sol–gel method in a microchannel. We constructed a microfluidic system consisting of a coaxial microchannel droplet generation and an in situ observation module to perform real-time testing of the continuous phase moisture content and in situ image observation through an HS-CCD camera to investigate the effects of the water extraction rate of the continuous phase, TOA distribution, droplet motion, and deformation on the morphology and structure of microspheres, thereby revealing the synergistic effects of extraction effects and motional forces on the morphology and structure of microspheres from their formation to the pre-solidification process. When the extraction rate is lower than 1 × 10−4 ml/min·mm2, the microspheres keep their uniform internal structure, and the MC micelles have enough time to contact TOA and fully swell. On the other hand, the extraction rate of more than 2 × 10−4 ml/min·mm2 causes fractures and cavities in the microspheres, causing insufficient swelling and reducing the pore volume. In addition, this extraction rate led to internal delamination and surface cracking of the microspheres, and the pore size appeared to have a bipolar distribution. A higher TOA distribution capacity was conducive to greater MC swelling and increased specific surface area. Both in situ observations and CFD simulations revealed that the sphericity of the microspheres in the microchannel was affected by the surface tension and fluid shear. If the surface tension is more than 4 mN/m at a low flow velocity, the sol droplet is favorable for maintaining high sphericity. By comprehensively effectively regulating the extraction and movement processes, a continuous phase of ethyl oleate with 9.70 × 10−5 ml/min·mm2 of extraction rate, 1.5 wt% Span 85 added with 4.35 mN/m surface tension, and heating at 0.1 m was selected as the main continuous phase. This resulted in the production of homogeneous super-circular alumina microspheres with a spherical shape (dmin/dmax of 0.987). This study provides a controllable method for achieving a uniform and stable gel process and maintaining the high sphericity of alumina sol using a microfluidic method. Moreover, the novel methods for solvent extraction and motion control described in this work significantly contribute to the field by offering a new approach for the preparation of homogeneous super-circular inorganic microspheres for high-end applications. However, of note, the surface tension and extraction rate mentioned in this work need to be reconsidered when preparing other inorganic systems by the sol–gel method in microchannels.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This work was financially supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (Grant No. 2019YFA0905100), National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 21991102).
Appendix A. Supplementary data
The following are the Supplementary data to this article:
Download : Download Word document (3MB)
Supplementary data 1.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
