I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Sulfate-Modified NiAl Mixed Oxides as Effective CH Bond-Breaking Agents for the Sole Production of Ethylene from Ethane
Abstract
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes with N2O or CO2 is an attractive pathway to produce alkenes and decrease environmental issues. However, the sole production of alkenes from the ODH process is significantly important but remains a great challenge due to the uncontrollable oxygen species for overoxidized products. Here, we report a sulfate-modified NiAl mixed oxide derived from layered double hydroxide that exhibits 100% ethylene selectivity at 10% ethane conversion using N2O as a representative soft oxidant, which surpasses the previously reported catalysts. Extensive characterizations and theoretical calculations demonstrate that the sulfate modifier favors the formation of more Ni3+ species and promotes the isolation of electrophilic oxygen (O) species through electronic and steric effects. Different from the conventional cognition of electrophilic oxygen species leading to overoxidation, we identify that the increase of the proportion of isolated electrophilic oxygen species determines the higher selectivity of ethylene. The isolated oxygen species are favorable for the effective breakage of CH bonds of ethane to selectively produce ethylene with facile desorption, while the adjacent ones strongly bind ethylene and excessively break the CH bonds to overoxidation. More importantly, the sulfate-modification strategy for increasing ethylene selectivity can be extendable to not only the CO2-assisted ODH reaction but also to other catalysts.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:selectivity ethylene oxidative dehydrogenation NiO oxygen species
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Shale gas is an abundant resource that has been extensively exploited over the past decade owing to its high methane content of 8090 mol %. (1) The Energy Information Administration of America estimated that the output of shale gas would increase by 104% from 2012 to 2040. (2) Ethane is the primary associated gas component in this resource, which can be converted to the major building block of ethylene for the petrochemical industry. The current state-of-the-art process for the production of ethylene involves the thermal steam cracking of naphtha and ethane, which suffers from high energy consumption and severe coking problems. (3,4) Consequently, considerable effort has been devoted toward developing alternative processes, such as the catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes to olefins. (57) The soft oxidant and greenhouse gases of N2O and CO2 are more desirable than conventional O2 due not only to the abatement of environmental issues from the activity of human being but also to the production of energy stock ethylene coupled with small molecules of CO, H2, and N2 for further FischerTropsch and NH3 synthesis. (812) The key aspect of ODH technology is to prevent the subsequent oxidation of the desired alkene product by adopting an efficient heterogeneous catalyst that achieves a controllable distribution of products. (13,14) To this end, studies have demonstrated the favorability of catalysts with homogeneously exclusive active centers, such as single metal atoms, (15,16) multiple atoms, (17) and uniformly distributed surface reactive species. (18) Moreover, both experimental and theoretical studies have shown that an ideal catalyst should selectively break the CH bond of light alkanes to release the target product. (19,20) However, obtaining catalysts that meet this requirement to realize the sole production of alkene still remains a significant challenge.
Metal oxides have been extensively developed as catalysts in the ODH reaction owing to their favorable stability under oxidative environments and the adjustable electronic properties of their surfaces. (5) For example, TeVO4 species separated by the MoNbTeOy phase on MoVTeNbO catalysts have been shown to improve the selectivity of the catalysts toward ethylene. (21) In addition, isolated VOx species were demonstrated to increase the ethylene selectivity of VOx-based catalysts compared with polymeric species. (22) This increased selectivity originated from the strengthened VO bonds on the isolated VOx species relative to those of standard vanadium oxide species. Furthermore, it was suggested that atomic-scale doping of Mo in VOx could also increase the binding energy of the bulk lattice oxygen in VOx and, thereby, enhance the selectivity of the catalyst. (23) Comparatively, the NiO-based catalysts with higher reactivity in ODH reactions has attracted extensive interest recently. (24) It was found that the electrophilic surface oxygen (O) species on NiO was responsible for the activation of CH bonds but also resulted in the overoxidation of products. Accordingly, many efforts have been made to decrease the amount of these oxygen species in NiO-based catalysts using various strategies such as doping with higher valence metal ions (Nb, Mo, Sn, and Ti) or dispersing the catalysts on high surface-area supports (Al2O3 and TiO2). (2427) However, the selectivity of NiO-based catalysts for ethylene is presently limited to a maximum value of 90%. This limitation may be attributed to the fact that the spatial distributions of oxygen species are not well-regulated. Thus, it is crucial to discriminate the type of oxygen species that determines the selectivity of ethylene from the ODH of ethane.
The present study addressed the above important issue by modulating the oxygen species on the NiO surface via the use of an anion group of sulfate modifier, which is obviously alternative to the conventional metal cations. In addition, an ultrathin NiAl layered double hydroxide (LDH) was used as a precursor to obtain a high dispersion of NiO species. (28) The application of the optimal sulfate-modified NiAl complex oxide to the ODH of ethane exhibits an ethylene selectivity of nearly 100% over a wide range of ethane conversions using N2O as an oxidant, which significantly exceeds the performance of our previously reported NiO-based catalyst with the good incorporation of Al cations. (26) The underlying factors affecting the conversion of ethane to ethylene using the proposed catalyst are investigated through a combination of experimental measurements and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The electron-withdrawing and steric effects of the sulfate modifier are demonstrated to effectively tune the electronic states of the Ni sites and enforce the isolated distribution of electrophilic surface oxygen species on the catalyst. These isolated oxygen species are then identified to enable the effective breakage of CH bonds in ethane and the desorption of ethylene without subsequent oxidation.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Sulfate-Modified NiAl Catalysts Derived from LDH Precursors
A schematic description of NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts prepared by the coprecipitation method is given in Figure 1a. The physicochemical properties of these catalysts are listed in Table 1, with those of the LDH precursors listed in Table S1. With respect to the LDH precursor materials, X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure S1) indicate that all of the LDH precursors display typical (00n) diffraction peaks characteristic of layered structures. (29) The main (003) diffraction peak of the ultrathin LDH-1 precursor is significantly broader than that of the bulk LDH-3 precursor, indicating smaller particle sizes and reduced crystallinity. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images and the thickness distributions of the layers shown in Figure 2ac explicitly reveal the layer thicknesses of the different precursor materials, which are observed to decrease from 7.1 nm for bulk LDH-3 to 2.0 nm after the addition of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS; NaC12H25SO4) for the synthesis of ultrathin LDH-1.
Table 1. Physicochemical Parameters of NiAl Catalysts
catalysts grain sizea (nm) S contentb (wt %) Na contentb (wt %) BET (m2 g1)
NiAl-B 4.9 0 1.0 90
NiAl-S2 4.7 2.0 1.0 122
NiAl-S1 4.0 6.3 1.1 128
aNiO grain size determined from the XRD results.
bS and Na content on catalysts from ICP detection.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) Scheme of the formation of NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts. (b) XRD patterns of NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts. (c) Magnitude of k2-weighted Fourier transforms of the Ni K-edge EXAFS spectra and the corresponding curve-fitting results for NiO, NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts.
Figure 2
Figure 2. TEM images of (a) bulk LDH-3, (b) LDH-2, and (c) ultrathin LDH-1 precursor materials with the thickness distributions of layers. TEM and HRTEM images of the (d, g) NiAl-B, (e, h) NiAl-S2, and (f, i) NiAl-S1 catalysts.
With respect to the catalyst materials, TEM results (Figure 2df) indicate that the NiAl-S1 catalyst possesses the highest dispersion of NiO. Moreover, high-resolution (HR) TEM images (Figure 2gi) indicate that the structure of the catalysts include only NiO crystalline phases with (200) and (111) crystal planes. This is confirmed by the XRD results in Figure 1b, where only NiO diffraction peaks are observed for the NiAl oxide catalysts, which however are shifted compared to those of pure NiO owing to the doping of Al cations. (26) Nevertheless, these peaks for the NiAl-S1 and NiAl-S2 catalysts are not shifted relative to those of the NiAl-B catalyst, suggesting that the sulfate molecules are coordinated on the surfaces but not in the bulk of the NiAl oxide materials. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) results (Figure S2) show obvious weight loss for the NiAl-S1 and NiAl-S2 catalysts above 600 C, which can be attributed to the decomposition of sulfate. (30) The sulfur concentrations of the NiAl-S1 and NiAl-S2 catalysts are 6 and 2 wt % through the inductively coupled plasma (ICP) detection (Table 1), respectively. The elemental distributions of the NiAl-S1 catalyst obtained from energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) analysis (Figure S3) show that Ni, Al, and S are well-mixed. The extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) results shown in Figure 1c (as well as Figure S4 and Table S2) indicate that the coordination number (CN) in the NiNi shells of the NiAl-B catalyst is 10.6 compared to 12 for bulk NiO. With the modification by higher amount of sulfate, there are lower CN values in the NiNi shells of the NiAl-S2 (10) and NiAl-S1 (8.5) with the CN values of NiO bond almost intact. The decreased lower CN values in the NiNi shells can originate from the decrease of grain size of NiO from 4.9 nm for NiAl-B to 4.0 nm for NiAl-S1 in Table 1. This is favorable for the higher specific surface area of NiAl-S1 (128 m2 g1) relative to that of NiAl-S2 (122 m2 g1) and NiAl-B (90 m2 g1), as listed in Table 1. Accordingly, these results demonstrate that we effectively adjusted the layer thickness of LDH precursors as well as the sulfate as a modifier on the surface of NiAl mixed oxides.
Chemical States of Ni Species and the Indicators of Isolated Oxygen Species on Catalyst
The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results for the NiAl-S1 and NiAl-S2 catalysts (Figure S5) show two specific S 2p3/2 peaks with the binding energies at 169.0 and 168.4 eV, which can be assigned to NiSO4 and Al2(SO4)3, respectively. (31,32) However, the relative areas of these peaks indicate that a greater proportion of sulfur atoms are found in NiSO4 than in Al2(SO4)3, demonstrating that the sulfate molecules are primarily coordinated with Ni sites. The effect of sulfate molecules on the chemical state of Ni in the catalyst samples is shown by the XPS results in Figure 3a, where the Ni 2p3/2 spectra can be divided into two characteristic peaks with binding energies of 854.6 and 856.2 eV, which are ascribed to Ni2+ and Ni3+ species, respectively. (33) The atomic concentration ratios of the Ni3+/Ni2+ states (Table S3) for the NiAl-S1, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-B catalysts are determined from the respective areas under the characteristic peaks as 2.6, 1.8, and 1.5, respectively, indicating that the NiAl-S1 catalyst includes the greatest proportion of Ni3+ states. These results are confirmed by the in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform (DRIFT) spectra of adsorbed CO as shown in Figure 3b. Here, the peak at 2080 cm1 for the NiAl-B catalyst can be attributed to the linear adsorption of CO on partial positively charged Ni sites. (34) Comparatively, the wavenumber of this peak on the NiAl-S2 and NiAl-S1 catalysts increases to 2100 and 2125 cm1, respectively. This blue shift originates from the adsorption of CO on higher valence Ni species, which further demonstrates that a greater concentration of Ni3+ species are formed with increasing sulfate concentration, indicating that the electronic state of Ni in NiAl oxides can be tuned according to the concentration of the sulfate modifier. This is further confirmed by the Bader charge analysis obtained by DFT calculations (Figure S6), which shows that the Ni atoms on the surface of the catalysts lose an electron and become more positive. This change can be attributed to the electron-withdrawing effect of sulfate molecules. (35)
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) XPS spectra of Ni 2p3/2 for NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts. (b) In situ DRIFT spectra of CO adsorbed at room temperature on NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts at different equilibrium pressures. (c) Schematics illustrating isolated and adjacent oxygen species on the surfaces of NiAl-B and NiAl-S1 catalysts. (d) Decomposition of N2O as a function of reaction temperature on NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts (W/F = 0.6 g s cm3, N2O/He = 1:49). (e) The conversion of N2O under conditions of pure N2O (black bar) and of the ODH of ethane (red bar) over NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts, (N2O/He = 1:49 or C2H6/N2O/He = 1:1:48, W/F = 0.6 g s cm3, T = 600 C).
The electronic state of Ni species can affect the coordination environment of oxygen species. (36) The results of XPS demonstrated that sulfate molecules mainly interact with the surface Ni sites. The presence of sulfate molecules promotes the isolation of oxygen species via the steric effect along with the change in the electronic state of Ni. The structures of the NiAl-B and NiAl-S1 catalysts with surface electrophilic oxygen species are illustrated in Figure 3c. Here, the NiAl-B catalyst includes Ni2+ and the neighbored Ni3+O sites with adjacent oxygen species, while the NiAl-S1 catalyst transfers a greater proportion of Ni2+ sites to Ni3+ after the effect of sulfate molecules. The Ni3+O sites are also separated by sulfate molecules, which increase the proportion of isolated oxygen species on the NiAl-S1 catalyst. To further reflect the electronic feature of these oxygen species, Bader charge analysis is performed. The calculation results indicate that the average charge of isolated oxygen and adjacent oxygen is 0.69 e and 0.73 e, respectively, both of which are more positive than that (1.10 e) of lattice oxygen, which is nucleophilic. The electrophilic feature of the isolated and adjacent oxygen species is responsible for the effective activation of the CH bond of ethane. (25,37)
An indicator of oxygen species coordination can be obtained by employing N2O as a probe gas due to the well-known first step of N2O dissociative adsorption to form an O atom and an N2 molecule. (9) Here, surface Ni2+ species have been demonstrated to serve as active sites that decompose N2O, while Ni3+ species are inert due to their saturated coordination sites. (38) The dissociative adsorption of N2O on surface Ni2+ sites generates Ni3+O species and N2 as follows.
(1)
Then, Ni3+O species can further react with adjacent Ni3+O species to generate O2 as follows.
(2)
Finally, the desorption of O2 recovers the active Ni2+ sites. Accordingly, the redox couple Ni3+/Ni2+ and adjacent oxygen species are both necessary to ultimately decompose N2O. This results in a high N2O conversion (94%) on the NiAl-B catalyst, as shown in Figure 3d. Comparatively, the Ni3+ species affected by sulfate are inert to dissociate N2O, which would decrease the active sites to produce adjacent Ni3+O species. Hence, the isolated oxygen species on NiAl-S1 catalyst leads to the negligible N2O conversion.
The decomposition rates of N2O in the presence and absence of C2H6 were compared (Figure 3e) to further identify the coordination state of surface oxygen species. Here, we note that the conversion of N2O to O2 on the NiAl-B catalyst progresses similarly with and without added ethane, which demonstrates the ease of forming O2 due to adjacent oxygen species. Thus, the promotional role of ethane on N2O conversion over the NiAl-B catalyst is weak. However, the decomposition rates of N2O on the NiAl-S1 catalyst behaves quite differently with and without added ethane owing to the predominance of isolated oxygen species on this catalyst surface, where N2O decomposition is 32% at 600 C with added ethane but 2% when including only N2O. Although the conversion of N2O to O2 on the NiAl-S1 catalyst is quite limited due to the lack of adjacent oxygen species, the isolated oxygen species readily interact with C2H6 and promote the conversion of N2O to N2 via the step
(3)
followed by the step given by eq 1. These results further demonstrate that the electrophilic oxygen species are isolated on the NiAl-S1 catalyst, while they are predominantly adjacent on the NiAl-B catalyst.
Catalytic ODH Performance for Ethane
Before the performance test, we did the blank experiment without the presence of catalyst. As shown in Figure S7, both the conversions of C2H6 and N2O are below 1.5% even at 600 C. Thus, the direct reaction of reactants in the gas state can be negligible. A comparison of the ODH performances of catalysts at 560 C was obtained through limiting the ethane conversion to 10% by appropriately adjusting the space velocity employed in the reactions. The results are shown in Figure 4a. We note that the ethylene selectivities of the NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts under these reaction conditions are 78%, 91%, and nearly 100%, respectively. This selectivity difference among these catalysts does not result from the residual Na due to the similar amounts (Table 1), while the selectivity of NiAl-S1 is greater than that of any previously reported NiO-based catalysts. (39,40) The ethane conversion profile with respect to reaction temperature for the NiAl-S1 catalyst (Figure 4b) indicates that ethylene is nearly the sole reaction product at temperatures less than 560 C. However, the products are more diverse at a higher ethane conversion rate of 27%, where the ethylene concentration is greatest (selectivity of 91%) along with minor concentrations of CO, CO2, and CH4. Comparatively, we note that CO2 is the only other product obtained by the NiAl-B catalyst under similarly high ethane conversion rates (Figure S8). These results imply that the adjacent oxygen species on the NiAl-B catalyst can lead to the overoxidation product of CO2, while the isolated oxygen species on the NiAl-S1 catalyst facilitates the selective production of ethylene.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Ethylene selectivity obtained by the three catalysts at 560 C with ethane conversion rates of all three processes limited to 10% by adjusting the space velocity. Here, the W/F ratio employed for the NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalysts were 0.2, 0.3, and 0.6 g s cm3, respectively (C2H6/N2O/He = 1:1:48). (b) The ethane conversion and ethylene selectivity as a function of temperature on NiAl-S1. Reaction conditions: C2H6/N2O/He = 1:1:48, W/F = 0.6 g s cm3.
The excellent ethylene selectivity of the NiAl-S1 catalyst is further confirmed by the ethylene selectivity versus ethane conversion results obtained for the three catalysts at 600 C under different weight of catalyst/the flow rate of feed gas (W/F) ranging from 0.02 to 2.4 g s cm3 (Figure S9), which demonstrates that the ethylene selectivity of the NiAl-S1 catalyst is much greater than that of the NiAl-S2 and NiAl-B catalysts at any similar ethane conversion rates. Moreover, we note from Figure 5 that the NiAl-S1 catalyst provides a wide range of ethane conversions from 2% to 10%, over which the ethylene selectivity is maintained at 100% at 600 C. Even at high ethane conversion of 52%, NiAl-S1 can still obtain a good ethylene selectivity of 81%. The performance comparison between this catalyst and the previous catalysts are then displayed. NiAl-S1 exhibits higher performance than those of previously reported Nb-NiO, (41) MoO3/Al2O3, (42) VOx/Al2O3, (43) Co/TiO2, (44) and B-oCNTs, (45) and it is even a little higher than state-of-the-art MoVTeNb (46) and BN. (47) The stability of these NiAl catalysts was evaluated at 600 C. As shown in Figure S10, the ethane conversion and ethylene selectivity show rather stable values during 1000 min time on stream, indicating a good stability of NiAl-S1, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-B for the ODH of ethane by N2O. These results unequivocally demonstrate that the proposed sulfate-modified NiAl-S1 catalyst exhibits excellent performance in the ODH of ethane to ethylene.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Performance of NiAl-S1 in the ODH of ethane with N2O compared with the typical catalysts that work under the atmosphere of oxygen. The literature results of Nb-NiO, (41) MoO3/Al2O3, (42) VOx/Al2O3, (43) Co/TiO2, (44) B-oCNTs, (45) MoVTeNb, (46) and BN (47) are shown for comparison.
Dependence of Ethylene Selectivity on the Type of Oxygen Species
The roles of isolated and adjacent oxygen species in the ODH of ethane to ethylene are further demonstrated by the temperature-programmed surface reaction (TPSR) experiments. As shown in Figure S11, the signal of ethylene generates earlier than that of COx and CH4 on NiAl-S1. Moreover, there is more release of ethylene at temperature higher than 500 C on NiAl-S1, while the byproduct CO2 is facilely released at lower temperature on NiAl-B. Thus, the high preponderance of isolated oxygen species on the NiAl-S1 surface can effectively activate the CH bond of ethane with the selective production of ethylene. Comparatively, the adjacent oxygen species on the NiAl-B surface can result in the overoxidation product of CO2.
The quantity of electrophilic surface oxygen species on NiAl catalysts was obtained by mass spectrometer (MS) experiment with N2O submission. In detail, the catalysts were treated by 2% C2H6/He to remove surface oxygen species; then N2O was introduced. The products of N2 and O2 were tracked with results shown in Figure 6ac. We note that the N2 and O2 products are released almost simultaneously from the NiAl-B and NiAl-S2 catalyst surfaces. Comparatively, there is an initial decrease and then rapid recovery of N2O signal on the NiAl-S1 catalyst in Figure 6c. N2 is the only product detected with the negligible O2 originally due to the dissociative adsorption of N2O to N2 and the adsorbed O species. (48,49) The rapid recovery of N2O signal results from the extremely low conversion of N2O on this catalyst as shown in Figure 3d. Thus, the adsorption of N2O on the NiAl-S1 catalyst occurs dissociatively to form isolated oxygen species rather than adjacent species, suggesting a good recyclability of isolated oxygen species on the NiAl-S1 catalyst. Through a quantitative analysis of N2 and O2, the quantity of oxygen species on the NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalyst surfaces is calculated as 37, 21, and 10 μmol g1, respectively (Figure S12). The decreased amount of electrophilic surface oxygen species on the NiAl-S1 catalyst can be attributed to the oxygen species isolation caused by the steric effect of sulfate molecules, as illustrated in Figure 3c.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Mass spectra records of N2O decomposition to form N2 and O2 products on the (a) NiAl-B, (b) NiAl-S2, and (c) NiAl-S1 catalyst surfaces at 560 C (N2O/He = 1:49, W/F = 0.4 g s cm3). (d) Ethylene selectivity (at the conversion of 10%) and the proportion of isolated O species as functions of the ratio of Ni3+/Ni2+. The solid dots represent the results obtained from the NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1 catalyst, while the open dots represent the results obtained from a NiO/Al2O3 catalyst in ref (26).
We defined a quantitative relationship between the ethylene selectivity and the proportion of isolated oxygen species based on the ratio of Ni3+/Ni2+ species obtained from the XPS results in Figure 3a (see Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 6d, the ethylene selectivity of the catalysts becomes limited as more adjacent oxygen species are at a relatively low value of Ni3+/Ni2+ ratio. The incorporation of Al cations into NiO results in the formation of more Ni3+ species, which benefits higher content of isolated oxygen species. (26) The addition of sulfate modifier further promotes the generation of more isolated oxygen species by steric and electronic effects with more Ni3+ species. An increasing proportion of oxygen species become isolated as Ni3+/Ni2+ increases, and the proportion of isolated oxygen species approaches 100% for the NiAl-S1 catalyst with a Ni3+/Ni2+ ratio of 2.6. Correspondingly, an ethylene selectivity of nearly 100% is obtained. Thus, the proportion of isolated electrophilic oxygen species is positively correlated with the ethylene selectivity. These results quantitatively discriminate the isolated oxygen species for the sole production of ethylene in the ODH of ethane with N2O, which is different from the conventional cognition that all of electrophilic surface oxygen species result in the overoxidation. (24,25)
DFT Elucidation of the Origin for the Ethylene Selectivity
To gain further insights on the selectivity control by these oxygen species, the DFT calculations were investigated. The structure of NiAlO(001)-Oi with isolated oxygen species (Oi) was constructed and displayed in Figure S13. We can see that the Oi can capture the H atom from C2H6 to generate C2H5* intermediate and HOi* (C2H6* + Oi*  C2H5* + HOi*), which is well-known as the rate-determining step in the ethane ODH reaction. (25) This reaction has a calculated energy barrier of 1.18 eV. The further dehydrogenation of C2H5* can produce C2H4 and H2O, which is confirmed experimentally by the TPSR result (Figure S11). Once the local Oi atom is consumed, C2H4 must be adsorbed at the Ni sites of the surface (Figure 7a). This adsorption state of C2H4 generates a small binding energy of 0.34 eV, Figure 7g. The further reaction about the subsequent dissociation of C2H4* to C2H3* and H* on the surface is found to exhibit an energy barrier of 1.30 eV in the transition state (TS1; Figure 7b) with a large endothermicity (1.07 eV, Figure 7c). Meanwhile, the distance between the C and H atoms of the broken CH bond in TS1 is 1.51 Å. Besides, the reaction energy of the CC bond scission in ethylene to form two CH2* species (Figure S14) is as high as 1.22 eV, indicating that this reaction is infeasible. Therefore, C2H4* is more likely to desorb from the surface rather than continue to dehydrogenate, which facilitates the experimentally observed sole production of ethylene.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (ac, g) NiAlO(001) with isolated oxygen species, (df, h) adjacent oxygen species. Color scheme: H, white; C, gray; electrophilic oxygen species, green; lattice O, red; Al, pink; Ni, slate blue.
In contrast, multiple oxygen species are assumed to participate in the reaction steps on the NiAlO(001)-Oa surface with adjacent oxygen species (Oa) that is displayed in Figure S15. The activation of the first CH bond of C2H6 by the adjacent Oa species to generate C2H3Oa* intermediate and HOa* (C2H6* + 2Oa*  C2H5Oa* + HOa*) requires an energy barrier of 0.70 eV. This barrier is lower than that on NiAlO(001)-Oi, favoring the release of ethylene at lower temperatures as shown in Figure S11. However, the produced C2H4 can facilely bind to two Oa species to form C2H4(Oa*)2 (Figure 7d). The calculated adsorption energy of C2H4* in this state is 1.74 eV, indicating that C2H4* will not readily desorb from the surface. One H atom of C2H4* can then be dissociatively adsorbed by the third Oa species in the transition state (TS2; Figure 7e) with a low energy barrier of 0.51 eV. Clearly, this energy barrier is much less than the binding energy of C2H4*. In TS2, the distance between the C and H atom of the broken CH bond is 1.28 Å. The final state (Figure 7f) obtains an exothermic reaction energy of 0.80 eV, and after the reaction, C2H3(Oa*)2 and HOa* are collectively adsorbed on the surface. Moreover, we also considered the CC bond breaking in ethylene. As shown in Figure S16, this process is largely endothermic (1.14 eV). All these results suggest the facile and consecutive oxidation of C2H4 by adjacent oxygen species. The combined energy pathways displayed in Figure 7g, h explains well why the ethylene selectivity of the NiAl-B catalyst is less than that of the NiAl-S1 catalyst.
The propensity for ethylene desorption from these catalysts was corroborated experimentally by microcalorimetry measurements. The adsorption heat of ethylene on the NiAl-S1 catalyst is accordingly determined to be 102 kJ mol1 in Figure S17, which is in fair agreement with the adsorption energy of ethylene (1.12 eV) on an isolated oxygen atom determined from DFT calculations (Figure S18). Furthermore, the adsorption heat of ethylene on the treated NiAl-S1 catalyst, where the isolated oxygen species is first removed, is found to decrease significantly to 40 kJ mol1, which is consistent with the calculated binding energy of ethylene (0.34 eV, Figure 7g) on the NiAlO(001)-Oi surface. The adsorption heat of ethylene on the NiAl-B catalyst is 146 kJ mol1, which is significantly greater than that on the NiAl-S1 catalyst. Thus, the general trends of the measured adsorption heat values agree well with the results of the DFT calculations. The lower adsorption heat of ethylene on the NiAl-S1 catalyst indicates that the proper activation of the CH bond facilitates the release of ethylene. These results are further corroborated by the measured activation energy (Ea) of C2H4 oxidation on the NiAl-B and NiAl-S1 catalysts (Figure S19), where we note an extremely high value of Ea (195 kJ mol1) on the NiAl-S1 catalyst, implying the infeasibility of further C2H4 oxidation. In contrast, this value is much smaller (67 kJ mol1) on the NiAl-B catalyst, which would lead to the formation of an overoxidized product. These results unequivocally demonstrate that isolated oxygen species can effectively break CH bonds to selectively produce ethylene, while adjacent species result in excessive CH bond scission due to the stronger binding of ethylene.
Extension of Sulfate-Modification Strategy for the Isolation of Oxygen Species
As discussed above, there are isolated oxygen species on NiAl-S1 and more adjacent ones on NiAl-B. After the electrophilic surface oxygen species are consumed by ethane, the resulting Ni2+ sites can extract the oxygen atoms from the N2O oxidant. When the conventional O2 is used as an oxidant, the ethylene selectivity is lower on both NiAl-B and NiAl-S1 (Figure S20) compared with the result of using N2O as an oxidant in Figure 4a, which can be attributed to the preferential adsorption of O2 in an adjacent form. (50) However, NiAl-S1 with a greater proportion of isolated oxygen species still presents higher ethylene selectivity than NiAl-B, indicating the importance of the state of surface oxygen species on the catalytic performance. This process can be expected to function using CO2 as a soft oxidant. CO2 is a greenhouse gas as well, and the reduction of CO2 to CO in tandem with the ODH conversion of alkanes to alkenes is an attractive process for addressing environmental and energy sustainability issues. (51) When using CO2 as an oxidant, the ethylene selectivity on the NiAl-S1 catalyst attains a value of 100% (Figure S21), which is much greater than the ethylene selectivity (73%) obtained on the NiAl-B catalyst. These results indicate the advantage of using soft oxidant than O2. The isolated oxygen species on the NiAl-S1 catalyst surface is favorable for promoting the selective conversion of ethane to ethylene, and the dissociation of the N2O/CO2 oxidants facilitates the recovery of these oxygen species, both of which lead to the sole production of ethylene.
In addition, the sulfate modification strategy was extended for the isolation of electrophilic surface oxygen species on bulk and sulfate-modified NiGa catalyst materials, which are synthesized using a similar preparation method as that employed for synthesizing the NiAl-B and NiAl-S1 catalysts, and they are, respectively, denoted herein as NiGa-B and NiGa-S catalysts. The performance of these catalysts in the ODH conversion of ethane to ethylene was investigated using N2O as the oxidant. It is determined that the ethylene selectivity of the NiGa-S catalyst attains a value of greater than 99% (Figure S22), but the ethane conversion rate is slightly less (7%) than that obtained with the NiAl-S catalyst. In comparison, the ethylene selectivity of the NiGa-B catalyst is only 80%. We also note that the ratio of Ni3+/Ni2+ species on the NiGa-S catalyst surface is equivalent to that observed for the NiAl-S1 catalyst (Table S3). Hence, the application of sulfate molecules for promoting the isolation of oxygen species can be well-extended to other catalyst materials, which provides a promising approach for obtaining excellent ethylene selectivity in the ODH of ethane.
Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, this work proposes the sulfate-modified NiAl mixed-oxide catalysts derived from layered double hydroxide for use in the catalytic ODH of ethane to ethylene with N2O as an oxidant. The optimally modified catalyst realizes a very high ethylene selectivity of nearly 100% over a wide range of ethane conversions, which is for the first time among metal oxide catalysts to the best of our knowledge. The results of extensive experimental characterization demonstrate that the sulfate modifier alters the chemical state of Ni species to form a greater proportion of surface Ni3+ and facilitates the isolation of electrophilic surface oxygen species. Moreover, it is discriminated that the proportion of isolated electrophilic oxygen species determines the ethylene selectivity, and a positive correlation between them is then established. The CH bonds of ethane are exposed to excessive scission under a preponderance of adjacent oxygen species due to the stronger binding of ethylene intermediate, resulting in overoxidation. In contrast, the isolated oxygen species are shown to be favorable for the proper breakage of the CH bonds of ethane to form ethylene, which is then facilely desorbed from the catalyst surface. Furthermore, the sulfate-modification strategy for increasing the ethylene selectivity by isolating surface oxygen species is demonstrated to be extendable to not only the CO2-assisted ODH reaction but also to other catalyst materials. This work realizes the sole production of ethylene by the ODH of ethane using metal-oxide catalysts and provides profound insights for understanding the key factors controlling ethylene selectivity based on changes in the coordination and chemical states of surface species.
Experimental Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Catalyst Synthesis
The NiAl hydrotalcite precursors intercalated with SDS (NaC12H25SO4) were synthesized through a coprecipitation method. Typically, 10.89 g of Ni(NO3)2·6H2O and 4.68 g of Al(NO3)3·9H2O with a theoretical of Ni/Al atomic ratio of 3:1 were dissolved in 50 mL of ultrapure water. The solution was added to 100 mL of aqueous alkali containing 4.24 g of Na2CO3 and 2.40 g of NaOH at a rate of 2 mL min1. Then, 0, 0.003, or 0.05 mol of SDS was added as a surfactant into the liquid suspension. The pH of the suspension was adjusted to 10 by adding NaOH (2 mol L1), and the suspension was stirred vigorously at 65 C for 18 h. Separation was conducted by centrifugation at 8000 rpm for 10 min, and the separated solid was washed multiple times with deionized water. The NiAl LDH precursor materials synthesized with 0.05 and 0.003 mol SDS are denoted herein as ultrathin LDH-1 and LDH-2, respectively. The NiAl LDH precursor material synthesized without SDS is denoted as bulk LDH-3. The NiAl metal-oxide catalysts were obtained by drying the precursor materials at 80 C overnight, followed by calcination at 600 C for 3 h. The NiAl metal-oxide catalysts obtained from bulk LDH-3, LDH-2, and ultrathin LDH-1 are denoted herein as NiAl-B, NiAl-S2, and NiAl-S1, respectively.
Catalytic Performance Testing
The ODH of ethane was conducted in a fixed-bed quartz flow reactor at atmospheric pressure with N2O as an oxidant. Here, 0.3 g of the catalyst was loaded into the reactor tube (inner diameter of 8 mm) with glass wool as support. The catalyst performance was evaluated in the temperature range from 480 to 600 C. The feed gases consisted of 2 vol % C2H6 and 2 vol % N2O with the balance being He under a total flow rate F of 30 mL min1. The reactants and products were analyzed online by gas chromatography using a two-column chromatograph equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and He as carrier gas. The columns included a Pora PLOT Q column for quantifying CH4, CO2, N2O, ethane, ethylene concentrations, and a molecular sieve 5A column for analyzing H2, O2, N2, and CO concentrations. The ethane conversion and ethylene selectivity were calculated on a carbon basis, and the carbon mass balance was greater than 98% in all cases. The ethane conversion (XC2H6) and product selectivity were calculated as follows
where [C2H6]in represents the molar concentration of C2H6 in the feed gas; [C2H6]out and [C2H4]out represent the molar concentrations of C2H6 and C2H4 in the products, respectively; [C1]out represents the molar concentrations of either CH4, CO, or CO2 in the products. To investigate ethane conversion versus ethylene selectivity at 600 C, the W/F ratio was changed from 0.02 to 2.4 g s mL1.
Catalyst Characterization
HRTEM images and EDS analyses were obtained on a JEOL 2100FS STEM/TEM instrument. XRD measurements were conducted on a PW3040/60 X Pert PRO (PANalytical) diffractometer using a Cu Kα radiation source (λ = 0.15432 nm, 40 kV, 40 mA). The mean crystallite sizes of the samples were estimated using the Scherrer equation. We collected N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms on an ASAP 2460 Quantachrome instrument. The specific surface areas of the samples were calculated using the BrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) equation. The sulfur concentrations of the catalysts were determined by inductively coupled plasma spectrometry using an IRIS Intrepid II XSP spectrometer (Thermo Electron Corp.). TGA was conducted using an SDT Q600 in air at a constant flow rate of 60 mL min1. The measured temperature ranged from 50 to 900 C in intervals of 10 C min1.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was conducted on a VG ESCALAB210 apparatus using an Al Kα X-ray source (hν = 1486.6 eV). Binding energies were referenced to the C 1s peak set at 284.6 eV. X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), including X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analyses of the samples at the Ni K-edge, were collected at the 1W1B beamline of the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF), China. A double Si(111)-crystal monochromator was used for energy selection, and Ni foil was employed to calibrate the energy. The spectra were collected in the transmission mode at room temperature.
In situ DRIFT spectroscopy was conducted using a Bruker Equinox 70 spectrometer. Prior to each measurement, the catalyst was placed in a vacuum (<0.01 Torr) at 120 C for 1 h to remove absorbed species on the surface. Then, CO was quantitatively pulsed into the chamber containing the catalyst, and the spectra were obtained at room temperature.
The MS records of N2O decomposition experiment were conducted in fixed-bed quartz flow reactor. First, the catalyst in the reactor was treated by 2% C2H6/He at 560 C for 0.5 h. Then the catalyst was purged by He. After the steady state of N2O concentration in an MS recorder, the switch was opened to make contact between catalyst and N2O. The decomposition products were detected by an online mass spectrometer.
The TPSR of ethane was investigated in the fixed-bed quartz flow reactor according to the methodology discussed above for catalyst performance testing. The catalyst sample was first purged by 2 vol % C2H6/He (30 mL min1), and the temperature was increased from 50 to 800 C at a rate of 10 C min1. The signals of the products were detected by an online mass spectrometer.
Ethylene adsorption microcalorimetry was conducted at 40 C using a BT 2.15 heat-flux calorimeter (Seteram). The calorimeter was connected to a gas handling and volumetric system using MKS 698A Baratron capacitance manometers for precision pressure measurements. Prior to the tests, the NiAl-B, NiAl-S1, and NiAl-S2 catalysts were held under vacuum in a special treatment cell at 120 C for 1 h. In addition, the NiAl-S1 catalyst was subjected to 2 vol % C2H6 (30 mL min1) at 560 C to remove surface oxygen, and it is referred to herein as the treated NiAl-S1 catalyst. The adsorption experiment was conducted at 40 C, and the detailed procedures for conducting microcalorimetric adsorption analysis have been reported previously. (52)
Computational Method
Spin-polarized DFT calculations were conducted using the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) with the PerdewBurkeErnzerhof (PBE) exchange-correlation functional as implemented in the Vienna Ab Initio Simulation Package (VASP). (53) The electronic wave functions were expanded into plane waves up to a cutoff energy of 400 eV, and the wave functions of the ionic core electrons were approximated by the projector augmented-wave (PAW) method. (54) The behavior of strongly localized Ni 3d electrons was described accurately by adding a Hubbard U term with a value of 6.3 eV to the GGA functionals. (55) The Brillouim zone (56) was sampled using 9 × 9 × 9 MonkhorstPack k-point grids for the optimization of the bulk NiO structure. The calculated lattice cell parameter was 4.168 Å, which is consistent with the previously published experimental value of 4.17 Å. (57)
The NiO(001) surface was selected as the computational reaction surface model according to our XRD results shown in Figure 1b. A slab with 2 × 2 unit cell dimensions in the xy-plane that included a total of 64 atoms was used under periodic boundary conditions in all calculations. A vacuum space greater than 14 Å was employed along the z-direction to avoid interactions between the periodic images. The model consisted of four layers with the atom positions in the bottom two layers fixed during structural optimization. In addition, antiferromagnetic type II ordering commensurate with the AF2 structure was applied in the alternate rows of Ni atoms, where the collinear spins are along the [111] crystal orientation. (57) The NiAlO structure of the proposed catalysts was simulated by replacing one Ni atom in the top layer of NiO(001) by an Al atom (Figure S6a). In addition, isolated oxygen species (Oi) and predominantly adjacent oxygen species (Oa) were considered to elucidate the dependence of Oi and Oa on the ethylene selectivity of the NiAl-S1 and NiAl-B catalysts, respectively. The NiAlO(001) surfaces with isolated and adjacent oxygen species are denoted as NiAlO(001)-Oi and NiAlO(001)-Oa, respectively. Surface optimization was conducted using 3 × 3 × 1 MonkhorstPack k-point grids, which were demonstrated to converge. The electron density for the atomic ground states converged with a 104 eV total energy threshold, and the structures were optimized until the maximum force acting on any ion was less than 0.05 eV/Å.
The adsorption energies (Eads) of the adsorbates on the catalyst surfaces were calculated from the surface model as follows.
Here, Etotal represents the total energy of the system with adsorbed species on the catalyst surface, E(surface) corresponds to the energy of the catalyst surface alone, and E(adsorbate) is the energy of the free adsorbate atoms or molecules.
The climbing image-nudged elastic band (CI-NEB) (58) approach was employed to simulate the formation of ethylene from ethane dehydrogenation on the modeled NiAlO(001) surfaces with either isolated or adjacent oxygen species. The activation barrier for each elemental step was calculated as the energy difference between the transition state (TS) and the initial state (IS), while the reaction energy for each reaction step was calculated by the energy difference between the final state (FS) and the IS.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 