I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


On the Role of Sn Segregation of Pt-Sn Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation
Abstract
Bimetallic nanoparticle catalysts attract extensive attention for relevant catalysis processes due to their flexible structures, while the structure evolution under specific conditions is ambiguous. This paper describes the structure evolution of Pt-Sn bimetallic nanoparticles for catalytic dehydrogenation, especially Sn segregation for surface recovery of a Pt-Sn alloy. An acid etching-reduction process was adopted to investigate the migration of Sn atoms after surface Sn species loss. By acid etching, Sn atoms at the surface of Pt-Sn alloy nanoparticles were removed, leaving nanoparticles with a Pt-rich shell and an unchanged Pt3Sn alloy core. Excitedly, during the following reduction process, the Pt3Sn alloy surface was recovered due to the migration of Sn atoms from the core to the surface, as confirmed by transmission electron microscopy, quasi in situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and density functional theory calculations. Subsequent studies on the catalyst performance for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) showed that the recoverable Pt3Sn alloy surface structure contributed to the high efficiency with 92% propene selectivity even after 5 cycles of the acid etching-reduction procedure. The recovery of the Pt-Sn alloy through Sn segregation could enable catalysts to overcome component fluctuations, making an efficient catalytic process.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:Pt-Sn catalysts alloy surface segregation propane dehydrogenation selectivity
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Restructuring of bimetallic catalysts under working conditions remains an intriguing research area in catalytic chemistry. (13) Structure evolutions in response to oxidizing and reducing processes have been found in a wide range of studies about Rh-Pd, (4) Pt-Ni, (57) Pd-Ga, (8) and Pt-Sn (911) systems. Recently, it was reported that metals in bimetallic nanoparticles can segregate to the surface to form restructured alloy surfaces under specific conditions, resulting in high catalytic reactivity. (12,13) For example, Zhang et al. have revealed that coreshell Ni@Au kinetically transformed into an active NiAu alloy surface during CO2 hydrogenation. (13) The discovery of surface transformation of bimetallic nanoparticles under specific conditions paves the way for engineering catalysts to serve relevant reactions.
Pt-based bimetallic catalysts have been widely applied in automobile catalytic converters, hydrogenation reactions, dehydrogenation reactions, reforming of oxygenates, etc. (14) The surface restructuring of Pt-based catalysts under alternative reducing and oxidizing conditions has been recognized over both model surfaces and supported catalysts. (5,6,14) Generally, recovery of the alloy surface requires outward diffusion of metals under oxidative conditions and subsequent reduction of oxides at the surface to form alloys under reductive conditions. (14,15) For example, a Pt-Ni alloy is oxidized under oxygen atmospheres to form Ni oxides at the surface, while Ni oxides are reduced and Ni diffuses back to the alloy under hydrogen atmospheres. (7,16) Under a reductive atmosphere or vacuum, a Pt-enriched surface structure is usually regarded as stable in those mostly studied Pt-based catalysts, owing to the lower surface energy of Pt than those of Cu, Fe, Ni, Co, etc. (5,1622) Cai et al. have constructed well-defined Pt-skin catalysts modified by different transition metal atoms (Fe, Co, and Ni) in subsurface regions to illustrate the role of subsurface catalysis in dehydrogenation reaction. (17)
Differently, Sn draws attention with a lower metal surface energy than Pt, (20) which can potentially induce a recoverable Pt-Sn alloy surface on the occurrence of Sn loss under reduction conditions. So far, the formation of Pt-Sn alloys over Pt-Sn catalysts has been well accepted. Namely, tin oxides close to Pt get reduced and then form alloys during a prereduction process, as evidenced by extensive characterizations. (10,11,2325) The Pt3Sn phase forms at the surface of Pt in the early stage of alloy formation, and Sn propagates gradually to the center of the particle as a result of Sn diffusion. (26) Pt3Sn is also proposed as an effective candidate for alkane dehydrogenation. (2729) Especially, propane dehydrogenation is intriguing as a highly value-added on-purpose process for propene production. (30) Various efficient Pt-based catalysts, such as Pt-Sn, (23,3133) Pt-Ga, (34,35) Pt-Cu, (36,37) Pt-Mn, (38) Pt-Co, (39) Pt-Fe, (17,40) and Pt-In (41) have been applied in this reaction, but Pt-Sn catalysts always play a unique role as one of the commercial catalysts. Nonetheless, few investigations are conducted to reveal the surface recoverability of the Pt-Sn alloy and its role in catalysis, which could provide fundamental insights into engineering the nanostructure of Pt-Sn bimetallic catalysts and revealing their structureperformance relationships from a new perspective. (41)
In this work, Pt-Sn/SBA-15 catalysts were synthesized by a coimpregnation and calcination-reduction process. Acid etching-reduction cycles were carried out to investigate the Sn segregation and the recoverability of the alloy surface under reductive atmospheres. The acid etching protocol could remove Sn species at the surface and leave a Pt-enriched shell. During the following reduction process, the surface of Pt-Sn alloy nanoparticles would be recovered through the segregation of Sn atoms from the alloy core to the surface. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), quasi in situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and in situ diffuse reflectance infrared spectroscopy with CO probe molecules (CO-DRIFTS) were used to detect the structure evolution of the catalyst. The segregation energy of Sn was analyzed by density functional theory (DFT) calculations to provide further insights into the segregation mechanism. The relationship between the surface recovering behaviors of Pt-Sn bimetallic nanoparticles and the catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation was established.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Formation of the Pt3Sn Surface Alloy after a Calcination-Reduction Procedure
Pt/SBA-15 and Pt-Sn/SBA-15 catalysts were prepared by coimpregnation followed by a calcination-reduction procedure. SBA-15 was selected as the support. Its acid resistance enabled the further investigation of the recoverability of the Pt-Sn alloy surface by an acid etching process. Moreover, the highly dispersed metal oxide sources from surrounding internal walls of SBA-15 were reported to decorate the formed Pt nanoparticle in close proximity during reduction and contribute to templated nanoparticles. (42) The structure characterizations of catalysts were carried out after reducing in the flow of 10% H2/Ar at 600 C for 1 h.
In terms of TEM measurements, the particle size distribution of Pt/SBA-15 is broad and around 8.1 nm (Figure 1a), while the size of supported nanoparticles over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is centered at 7.6 nm (Figure 1b), suggesting a decreased particle size after addition of Sn. The introduction of Sn helps to improve the dispersion of Pt and minimize sintering of nanoparticles, consistent with the geometric effect over Pt-Sn catalysts. (43) The alloy phase over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 was investigated by a combination of XRD and high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM). With Sn addition, diffraction peaks of (111) and (200) shift to a lower diffraction angle (Figure 1c). The degrees of the diffraction pattern from Pt-Sn/SBA-15 differ from the one of intermetallic Pt3Sn because disordered a Pt3Sn alloy phase formed. Owing to the different crystal symmetry and atomic ordering, the diffraction angles in XRD patterns of a disordered bimetallic alloy phase are usually slightly different from the one of an ordered intermetallic phase. (4446) Fringe spacings expanded from 0.225 nm of Pt(111) (Figure 1a) to 0.237 nm of Pt3Sn(111) (Figure 1b). These phenomena indicate that the relatively larger Sn atoms were incorporated into the Pt lattice to form a disordered Pt3Sn alloy with the face-centered cubic (fcc) configuration maintained. (11,28,47,48) The energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) line profiles and maps show the coexistence of Pt and Sn at both the surface and the core of nanoparticles over Pt-Sn/SBA-15, illustrating the formation of Pt-Sn alloy nanoparticles (Figure 1d,e).
Figure 1
Figure 1. TEM images of (a) Pt/SBA-15 and (b) Pt-Sn/SBA-15 after a calcination-reduction procedure. The insets show particle size distributions and high-resolution TEM images. (c) XRD patterns from Pt/SBA-15 and Pt-Sn/SBA-15. (d) EDS line scan profiles and (e) EDS maps from Pt-Sn/SBA-15.
Quasi in situ XPS was used to provide further insights into the surface property and composition over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 after the calcination-reduction procedure, which was conducted without being exposed to air. As displayed in Figure 2, the Pt 4f7/2 peak from calcined Pt-Sn/SBA-15 locates at 71.1 eV. 89% of Pt present as metallic Pt (Pt0) (Table S1). (9,49) Reduction peaks of PtOx are not observed by H2-TPR as well (Figure S1) probably because of the decomposition of PtOx to Pt0 during calcination. (50) Over calcined Pt-Sn/SBA-15, two kinds of tin oxides can be observed. The Sn 3d5/2 binding energy of SnO2 and SnOx locates at 488.3 and 486.4 eV, respectively. (9,51) Upon being pretreated by H2, these tin oxides in calcined Pt-Sn/SBA-15 experienced an intense reduction process as evidenced by the disappearance of the signal of SnOx species and the reduced peak area of SnO2 (Table S1). In contrast, a strong signal assigned to metallic Sn (Sn0) appears at 485.2 eV after reduction. (9) Some SnO2 at 488.3 eV was left probably because of being far away from Pt and not being reduced to Sn0. Residual SnO2 is defined to be highly dispersed in the SBA-15 pores (Figures S2 and S3). As to Pt, only Pt0 is observed, and the Pt 4f7/2 peak negatively shifts from 71.1 to 70.7 eV because the alloying of Pt0 with Sn0 brings about electron transfer from Sn to Pt, which is recognized as the electronic effect. (52,53) Over Pt-Sn/SBA-15, the ratio of Pt0/Sn0 determined by XPS is around 2.55, close to the one of the Pt3Sn alloy (Table S1). In terms of H2-TPR profiles, the reduction peak over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is much stronger than that from Sn/SBA-15, indicating that the reduction of tin oxides becomes easier with the promotion of Pt (Figure S1). Hence, the Pt3Sn alloy surface over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 can be prepared by the reduction of tin oxides on Pt.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Quasi in situ XPS of Sn 3d5/2 and Pt 4f from calcined Pt-Sn/SBA-15, Pt-Sn/SBA-15 under H2, and Pt-Sn/SBA-15 under a mixture of C3H8 and H2.
When switching the atmosphere from H2 to a mixture of C3H8 and H2, an atmosphere of propane dehydrogenation, we find that the peak positions of Pt0 and Sn0 in XPS profiles (Figure 2) are almost unchangeable after 60 min of exposure, indicating the existence of an alloy structure during propane dehydrogenation. The ratio of Pt0/Sn0 is 2.65 (Table S1), illustrating that the Pt3Sn surface can be retained under the C3H8 atmosphere. However, the loss of Sn under C3H8 is detected by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The Sn content decreases from 0.251 to 0.225 wt % after reaction (Table S2). The low melting point of metallic Sn species (230 C) probably contributes to the loss of Sn. Considering the lower surface energy of Sn (0.71 J/m2) than the one of Pt (2.49 J/m2), (20) the migration of Sn atoms from the core to recover the surface Pt-Sn alloy component is inferred to occur.
The catalytic performance of Pt-Sn/SBA-15 for propane dehydrogenation was evaluated and compared to that of monometallic Pt/SBA-15. Conversion and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation were determined using a gas mixture of C3H8 (14 vol %) and H2 (14 vol %) in N2 at a total flow of 50 mL/min. Catalysts (50 mg) were packed inside the quartz fixed-bed reactor. The reaction was conducted at 600 C after the catalysts were reduced at 600 C for 1 h. As shown in Figure 3a, the initial propane conversion and propene selectivity of monometallic Pt/SBA-15 are 24 and 65%, respectively. With the addition of Sn and the formation of a Pt3Sn alloy, the initial propane conversion increases to 40%, and the propene selectivity increases to 92%, which is attributed to the geometric effect and electronic effect of the Pt-Sn alloy. (5457) After reaction for 480 min, the propane conversion over Pt/SBA-15 is 7%, while the propene selectivity is 71%. In contrast, the propane conversion over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is 24%, and the propene selectivity is 92%, suggesting high catalytic efficiency over the Pt-Sn catalyst. Moreover, the carbon balance over Pt/SBA-15 is less than 0.95 because of its poor selectivity to gas products. With Sn addition, the carbon balance is up to 0.98, implying that the C3H8 feed gas is primarily converted to carbon-containing species in the gas state (Figure 3b). The formation rate of propene over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is 20 mol C3H6·gPt1·h1, much higher than the 8 mol C3H6·gPt1·h1 over Pt/SBA-15, suggesting excellent activity of the Pt-Sn catalyst (Figure 3c). Considering the loss of Sn during PDH, the deactivation rate was investigated. A first-order deactivation model was used to evaluate the deactivation rate. In 480 min, the deactivation rate of Pt/SBA-15 is 0.17 h1, while the one of Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is 0.09 h1, illustrating good stability of Pt-Sn/SBA-15 (Figure 3c).
Figure 3
Figure 3. Catalytic performance over Pt/SBA-15 and Pt-Sn/SBA-15. (a) Propane conversion and propene selectivity and (b) carbon balance over Pt/SBA-15 and Pt-Sn/SBA-15 in 480 min. (c) Initial formation rate of propene and deactivation rate over Pt/SBA-15 and Pt-Sn/SBA-15. Catalytic conditions: atmospheric pressure, 600 C, C3H8/H2 = 1/1, with balance N2 for a total flow rate of 50 mL min1, and 50 mg of the sample.
Recovery of the Pt3Sn Alloy Surface after Acid Etching-Reduction Processes
According to the aforementioned structure characterizations, the Pt3Sn surface structure of Pt-Sn/SBA-15 gets retained during PDH despite the loss of Sn during PDH. Hence, a recoverable Pt3Sn alloy surface is speculated as a proper reason for the good activity, selectivity, and stability of the Pt-Sn catalyst. The recoverability of the Pt-Sn alloy surface was further explored by an acid etching-reduction process. An acid etching-reduction process was adopted to simulate the loss of Sn and investigate the segregation of Sn atoms. By leaching the reduced Pt-Sn/SBA-15 catalyst in dilute nitric acid at room temperature for 20 min, etched Pt-Sn/SBA-15 (E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15) was obtained. Because Pt does not react with the acid, Sn atoms at the alloy surface of nanoparticles can be removed by the acid, while the bulk phase can be protected by the Pt shell. After acid etching, 16% Sn is removed by the acid as determined by ICP-MS (Table S2). The dealloyed surface of E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is confirmed by HR-TEM (Figure 4a), and the Pt-rich shell is also demonstrated by the EDS maps and line scans (Figure 4b,c). (58) The bulk alloy phase of nanoparticles is maintained during dealloying as illustrated by the unchanged fringe spacings and 2θ of diffraction peaks (Figure 4a,g). Hence, the Sn species at the alloy surface can be removed to form nanoparticles with the Pt-rich shell and the alloy core.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Structure evolutions of Pt-Sn catalysts during the acid etching-reduction process. HR-TEM images, EDS maps, and EDS line scans of (ac) E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 (after acid etching) and (df) RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 (after an acid etching-reduction cycle). The inset in (d) is the corresponding FFT patterns. (g) XRD patterns from E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 and RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15. (h) Quasi in situ XPS of RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 under H2.
The E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 was reduced in 10% H2/Ar at 600 C for 1 h to investigate the surface segregation of Sn and the surface recoverability. The reduced E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is named as RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15. Compared with E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, the XRD diffraction peaks of RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 corresponding to the (111) and (200) planes of the fcc structure shift to higher angles, and the intensities become stronger (Figure 4g), indicating the loss of Sn0 in the bulk phase. The ICP-MS result after reduction (Table S2) suggests that the total Sn content is unchanged. Furthermore, significant lattice fringes at the near-surface are observed after reduction (Figure 4d). The fringe space at the edge of the nanoparticle over RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is 0.206 nm, which can be ascribed to the formation of Pt3Sn, as evidenced by the fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns. EDS maps and line profiles show the presence of the Sn element at the near-surface (Figure 4e,f). Based on quasi in situ XPS, Pt 4f7/2 locates at 70.7 eV, and a significant signal from Sn0 is observed (Figure 4h), indicating the electronic effect in the Pt-Sn alloy. These phenomena suggest the migration of Sn atoms from the inner core to the surface during reduction and the presence of the Pt-Sn alloy surface structure over RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15. This can be explained by the lower surface energy of Sn relative to Pt. (20) The ratio of Pt0/Sn0 at the near-surface of RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 analyzed by quasi in situ XPS is 3.10 (Table S1). Consequently, it can be seen that the Pt3Sn alloy surface under reducing conditions is recoverable, which is contrary to the Pt-skin in Pt-transition metal systems. (14,17)
Several acid etching-reduction cycles were carried out to simulate the extreme Sn loss and further explore the maximum recoverability. With the increasing number of cycles, e.g., from RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 to 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 (5 cycles), the total Sn content gradually decreases (Table S2). According to EDS line scan profiles, over 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, the Sn signal in the core of the nanoparticle is weak, but the Sn element is demonstrated to be present at the near-surface of the nanoparticle (Figure 5a). After five cycles, the Sn content is too low to be detected by EDS from 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 (Figure 5b). Moreover, in contrast to RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 and 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, the linear CO adsorption over 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 shifts to a low wavenumber (Figure 5c), indicating a different surface structure when Sn content is low. Thus, it is easy to figure out that the Pt3Sn alloy surface cannot be restored after the Sn supply source for recovering the alloy surface is exhausted.
Figure 5
Figure 5. EDS line scans of (a) 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 and (b) 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15. (c) CO-DRIFTS of catalysts subjected to the cycled acid etching-reduction process.
StructurePerformance Relationship in Propane Dehydrogenation
After the study of structure evolutions, the catalytic performances of RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, 2RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, and 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 were investigated to reveal the role of Sn segregation in retaining catalytic efficiency of Pt-Sn catalysts. The condition of the reactivity test was the same as the test for Pt-Sn/SBA-15 except for using different catalysts. Possible effects of acid sites introduced during the acid etching process on performance were excluded because NH3-TPD experiments do not show any acid sites produced during acid etching (Figure S4). (5962) After the acid etching-reduction process, the initial propane conversion over RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is 37% and decreases to 23% after reaction for 480 min (Figure 6a). The propene selectivity is 92% (Figure 6a), and the carbon balance is 0.98 (Figure 6b), consistent with Pt-Sn/SBA-15. Furthermore, comparable catalytic efficiency can also be obtained after the pretreatment under the mixture of C3H8 and H2, indicating the probable surface segregation of Sn atoms under reaction conditions (Figure S5).
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Propane conversion and propene selectivity and (b) carbon balance over RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, 2RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, and 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 in 480 min. Catalytic conditions: atmospheric pressure, 600 C, C3H8/H2 = 1/1, with balance N2 for a total flow rate of 50 mL min1, and 50 mg of the sample.
To verify the key role of the alloy surface played in catalysis, the structures of post-catalysis samples were investigated. By means of TEM, EDS, XRD, and CO-FTIR, the surface structures of post-catalysis samples are defined to be Pt3Sn, the same as the one before reaction (Figures S6 and S7). The Pt-Sn alloy surface can be demonstrated to play a key role in catalysis. Thus, the primary active site on the Pt-Sn/SBA-15 catalyst could be the Pt3Sn phase. (27,28) Overall, it can be proposed that the recoverability of the Pt3Sn alloy surface can maintain the efficient catalytic performance during PDH, reflecting the uniqueness of the Pt-Sn alloy catalyst.
For the catalysts after several cycles of acid etching-reduction, 92% propene selectivity is obtained over 2RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 and 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15. Only 80% propene selectivity is obtained over 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 (Figure 6a) because Sn sources in the bulk phase are not enough to recover the Pt3Sn surface and maintain the catalytic efficiency after 5 cycles of the acid etching-reduction process. The initial propane conversion slightly decreases with the increasing number of the cycles of the acid etching-reduction process, which is induced by the inevitable loss of some active Pt sites during acid etching (Figure S8). However, propane conversion over 2RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, and 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 is 23% after reaction for 480 min. Thus, the acid etching-reduction process leads to less impact on the activity of the Pt-Sn catalyst.
To further verify the role of Sn segregation in retaining the catalytic performance of Pt-Sn catalysts, the propene selectivity at different propane conversions and the corresponding formation rate of propene as well as the deactivation rate are also provided. Both the Pt-Sn/SBA-15 and RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 allow 92% propene selectivity at different propane conversions, whereas the propene selectivity decreases with the increase of propane conversion over Pt/SBA-15, indicating that the recoverable Pt3Sn surface allows constant propene selectivity (Figure 7a). In 5 cycles of the acid etching-reduction process, the formation rate of propene is 1518 mol C3H6·gPt1·h1, and the deactivation rate is 0.060.08 h1. This is close to the 20 mol C3H6·gPt1·h1 and 0.09 h1 over Pt-Sn/SBA-15 and in sharp contrast to the 8 mol C3H6·gPt1·h1 and 0.17 h1 over Pt/SBA-15 (Figure 7b). Hence, Sn surface segregation is demonstrated to play a role in restoring the Pt3Sn alloy surface and retaining the propane conversion, propene selectivity, and stability of Pt-Sn catalysts.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Initial propene selectivity at different propane conversions. (b) Propene selectivity, formation rate of propene, and deactivation rate as a function of the number of the cycles of the acid etching-reduction process.
As shown in Figure 8, with the introduction of Sn, the Pt3Sn alloy surface can be prepared by a calcination-reduction process. After the loss of the Sn component on the surface, Sn atoms in the alloy core can segregate to the surface to restore the Pt3Sn surface structure. The recoverable Pt3Sn alloy surface resulting from Sn segregation makes it possible to achieve a high and consistent catalytic efficiency regardless of the component content fluctuations. When the loss of the Sn component happened, the propene selectivity of 92%, propene formation rate of 1520 mol C3H6·gPt1·h1 and deactivation rate of 0.060.08 h1 could be obtained, close to the properties over the fresh Pt-Sn catalyst and much more satisfactory than the 8 mol C3H6·gPt1·h1 and 0.17 h1 over Pt/SBA-15.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Recoverability of the Pt-Sn alloy surface. With the introduction of Sn and subsequent reduction, a Pt3Sn alloy surface formed. After the loss of the Sn component at the surface, Sn atoms in the alloy core contribute to restoring the Pt3Sn surface structure as the Sn atoms segregate from the alloy core to the surface.
DFT Calculations
The segregation of Sn atoms from sublayers to the surface after the removal of surface Sn atoms was investigated by DFT calculations. The segregation energy, defined as the energy required for Sn atoms to move from the bulk to the surface, (13,27) was calculated based on Pt3Sn@Pt, a model with a Pt top layer and Pt3Sn sublayers. As shown in Figure 9, when the number of segregated Sn atoms on the surface is not more than 4, the segregation energy of Sn atoms from the subsurface of Pt3Sn@Pt to the surface is negative. Moreover, the structure with a Pt3Sn top layer (4 Sn atoms at the surface) owns the most negative segregation energy, suggesting that it is the thermodynamically preferred surface alloy. When increasing the number of segregated Sn atoms on the surface, the segregation energy increases despite various compositions under the subsurface (Table S3). Typically, the model with 12 Sn atoms on the surface shows very high and positive segregation energy (6 eV) and undergoes severe surface reconstruction, which suggests that a Sn-enriched surface alloy is unlikely to exist through surface segregation of Sn. In addition, the segregation energy is still rather negative with the adsorption of C3H6*, C3H7*, or H* on the surface (Figure S9), indicating that the segregation of Sn atoms during PDH is still thermodynamically favorable and Pt3Sn surface can be restored, even if surface adsorbates exist. Hence, the Pt3Sn alloy surface is regarded as the most thermodynamically preferable structure resulting from the surface segregation of Sn atoms.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Segregation energy for different numbers of Sn atoms in sublayers segregated to the surface and corresponding 4 × 4 unit cell models. Silver spheres in models represent Pt atoms, and the gray-green spheres represent Sn atoms.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
A Pt-Sn alloy catalyst is demonstrated to be a kind of catalyst that is capable of overcoming the influence of component content fluctuations on catalytic efficiency owing to the Sn segregation for surface recovery. Specifically, the Pt3Sn alloy surface is determined to be recoverable and thermodynamically preferable by experiments and DFT calculations. In this study, an acid etching-reduction process was used to modulate the loss of Sn and investigate the structure evolution of the Pt-Sn alloy catalyst after Sn loss. Based on quasi in situ XPS, TEM, EDS, etc., the surface Sn species were removed during acid etching, and the Pt3Sn alloy surface got restored easily during the followed reduction because the Sn atoms at the alloy core can segregate to the surface once the Sn content at the surface is insufficient, driven by the negative segregation energy. Coupling structure characterizations and catalytic performance, the Sn segregation for the surface recovery of the Pt-Sn alloy is revealed to be fundamentally important for sustaining the high catalytic efficiency of Pt-Sn catalysts upon component fluctuations. This discovery of the surface recoverability provides an interesting way of engineering nanostructure for catalysis and other applications.
Materials and Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Preparation of Catalysts
The mesoporous silicon dioxide SBA-15-supported Pt and Pt-Sn catalysts were synthesized by conventional coimpregnation. Pt (0.75 wt %) and Sn (0.3 wt %) were loaded. SBA-15 was first impregnated by a solution of H2PtCl6·6H2O and SnCl4·5H2O. After enough stirring and ultrasonic dispersion for 0.5 h, the samples were dried at 120 C for 24 h under ambient conditions. The obtained solids were calcined at 500 C for 4 h with a ramping rate of 5 C/min and reduced at 600 C for 1 h with a ramping of 10 C/min to obtain Pt/SBA-15 and Pt-Sn/SBA-15 catalysts. E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 catalysts were obtained through acid etching. The reduced Pt-Sn catalysts were soaked in dilute acid solution (HNO3 concentration, 5 × 104 M) for 20 min and dried at 80 C for 12 h. RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 catalysts were prepared through the reduction of E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 under 600 C for 1 h. Likewise, 2RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, 3RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15, and 5RE-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 were prepared after 2, 3, and 5 cycles of the acid etching-reduction process, respectively.
Catalyst Characterization
The catalyst morphologies and microstructures were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), using a JEM-2100F transmission electron microscope at 200 kV. The sample was first reduced at 600 C for 1 h in a flow rate of 50 mL min1 of 10 vol % H2/Ar before characterization. The powder was dispersed in ethanol by ultrasonication and deposited on a carbon film-coated copper grid.
Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) was adopted to observe the crystal phases over catalysts. XRD patterns of reduced Pt-Sn/SBA-15 were collected using a Bruker Diffractometer D8 focus (Rigaku C/max-2500 l = 1.5406 Å).
Surface information was collected by quasi in situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The analysis was performed in a Thermo Fischer ESCALAB 250Xi photoelectron spectrometer with monochromated X-ray irradiation Al Kα (hν = 1486.7 eV) and a 180 double focusing hemispherical analyzer with a six-channel detector. The binding energy of the photoemission spectra is referenced to the binding energy of Si 2p in SiO2 (103.5 eV). Sn 3d5/2 and Pt 4f spectra were collected to elucidate the chemical states and relative surface contents of Sn and Pt species. Calcined Pt-Sn/SBA-15 and E-Pt-Sn/SBA-15 were used for experiments. The pretreatment of samples was performed in a UHV-connected high-pressure gas cell. Samples were heated in 10% hydrogen diluted in an Ar flow (1 mL/min H2 and 9 mL/min Ar; total pressure, 1 bar) at 600 C for 60 min for reduction and then switch to C3H8 with 40 mL/min. The photoelectron spectra were recorded after UHV transfer of the samples to the analyzer chamber without contact with the atmosphere.
To investigate the properties of Pt at the surface, diffuse reflectance infrared spectroscopy with CO probe molecules (CO-DRIFTS) was performed on a Thermo Scientific Nicolet IS50 spectrometer, equipped with a Harrick Scientific DRIFTS cell fitted with ZnSe windows and a mercury-cadmium-telluride (MCT) detector cooled by liquid nitrogen. Samples were reduced in situ in 15 vol % H2/Ar at 600 C for 60 min. The catalysts were cooled to 30 C and purged with Ar. The background spectrum at a resolution of 8 cm1 was collected under Ar. After that, a stream of CO (7 mL/min) was added, and this was continued for 30 min. The CO-DRIFTS spectra were recorded under Ar purging.
Inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) (7700X, Agilent) was used to analyze the total content of Pt and Sn over catalysts. Catalysts were dissolved in aqua regia and hydrofluoric acid before characterization.
To understand the reduction of Pt and Sn species over calcined catalysts, temperature-programmed reduction (H2-TPR) experiments were performed on a Micromeritics AutoChem 2920 apparatus. For H2-TPR, 100 mg calcined catalysts were packed in the U-type quartz tube and was pretreated at 100 C for 30 min in an Ar environment and then heated from 100 to 800 C in a stream of H2/Ar at a rate of 10 C/min. A thermal conductivity detector was used to analyze the consumption of hydrogen.
To analyze the acidity of the catalysts, temperature-programmed desorption of ammonia (NH3-TPD) measurements were implemented using a Micromeritics AutoChem 2920 apparatus. Samples (100 mg) were pretreated at 600 C for 1 h in H2/Ar and cooled to 50 C in a stream of helium before being saturated with adsorbed ammonia. A thermal conductivity detector was used to collect TPD profiles from 100 to 800 C at a heating rate of 10 C/min.
Reactivity Test
The PDH reaction was carried out in a quartz fixed-bed reactor with an 8 mm inner diameter and a 24 cm length at atmospheric pressure. Catalysts (50 mg) that had been previously pelletized to particle sizes of 2040 mesh were packed inside the quartz fixed-bed reactor, and quartz sand particles were used to dilute catalysts to a total volume of 1 mL. Before the reactivity test, the catalyst was heated to 600 C with a rate of 10 C/min in 10 vol % H2/N2 and retained at 600 C for 1 h. After the pretreatment, the reaction mixture of C3H8 (14 vol %) and H2 (14 vol %) in N2 was fed at a total flow of 50 mL/min. The gas products were analyzed by an online GC (2060) equipped with a flame ionization detector (Chromosorb 102 column) and a thermal conductivity detector (Al2O3 Plot column). A first-order deactivation model was used to evaluate catalyst stability
(1)
where Xinitial and Xfinal represent the conversion measured at the start and end of the reaction, respectively, t represents the reaction time (h), and kd is the deactivation rate constant (h1).
Calculations
The Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP) (63) was applied to perform periodic boundary calculations by using the projector augmented wave (PAW) method, (64) which described the interaction between the valence electrons and ionic cores. The generalized gradient approximation (GGA) (65) in the form of the Bayesian error estimation functional with van der Waals corrections (BEEF-vdW) (66) was used to describe the electron exchange correlation functional. The plane wave basis set was converged at the kinetic energy cutoff of 400 eV. The segregation energy of Sn atoms from the subsurface layer to the upper layer or the surface of Pt3Sn@Pt(111) was calculated with a 6-layer model. All surface slabs were represented by a 4 × 4 unit cell with the bottom two layers fixed. Geometry optimization stops until the residual force on each atom was less than 0.02 eV/Å. Dipole corrections were included to minimize the artificial interaction through vacuum due to periodicity. The Brillouin zone was sampled with the MonkhorstPack scheme, using 3 × 3 × 1 k-points. The segregation energies (ESeg) with and without adsorbates are calculated by the following equation
(2)
where ESeg-after is the energy of models with Sn surface segregation and ESeg-before is the energy of Pt3Sn@Pt(111). A more negative ESeg represents a more stable structure. When calculating ESeg with adsorbates, the most stable adsorption configuration is adopted.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 