<DOCUMENT>
Germanium-enriched double-four-membered-ring units inducing zeolite-confined subnanometric Pt clusters for efficient propane dehydrogenation

Abstract
It is a great challenge to regulate the precise placement of confined metal species and assemble specific structures at the atomic level. Here we report the design and synthesis of a durable supported-metal-cluster catalyst, Pt@Ge-UTL, that features subnanometric Pt clusters encapsulated inside the extra-large pores of a stabilized UTL-type germanosilicate. Integrated differential phase contrast scanning transmission electron microscopy, in situ X-ray absorption fine structure, 19F magic-angle-spinning NMR, full-range synchrotron pair distribution function G(r) analysis and density functional theory calculations revealed that Pt clusters with an average of four atoms are firmly segregated within 14-membered-ring channels. This is achieved by selectively and directionally anchoring Pt, via Pt–O–Ge bonding, to the UTL zeolite’s unique secondary building units that feature a double-four-membered-ring (d4r) configuration and a Ge-enriched composition. The host–guest bimetallic structure (Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL) promotes propane dehydrogenation with high activity, high propylene selectivity and long-term stability. This research demonstrates the use of germanosilicates in the designed synthesis of high-performance propane dehydrogenation catalysts.

Main
The ultimate goal of catalysis research is the development of novel catalysts with a desirable catalytic activity, high selectivity for target products and long-term durability. Pt-based catalysts that are used widely in the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene encounter multiple problems, such as high manufacturing cost, uncontrollable dispersion, easy aggregation and rapid deactivation at elevated operating temperatures. Dispersing single atoms or subnanometric clusters of a metal precisely within confined spaces may be an alternative way to maximize atom utilization1,2. However, when the metal active sites are dispersed at the scale of subnanometre clusters or even single atoms, the surface free energy of the metal species will increase, intensifying their agglomeration3,4. This makes subnanometre clusters and single atoms susceptible to severe high-temperature deactivation, even in the presence of strong metal–support interactions5. More effective ways are thus being sought to immobilize and disperse single atoms or subnanometric clusters onto specific anchoring sites of the supports. So far, with the exception of a few confining supports based on bulk metals or oxides6,7, porous materials such as crystalline zeolites have been selected as useful carriers, in the micropores of which metal species have been encapsulated using various means to suppress their aggregation8,9,10,11,12.
An efficient propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process relies on the propensity to break carbon–hydrogen (C–H) bonds while simultaneously suppressing the cleavage of carbon–carbon (C–C) bonds1. For a direct PDH process without oxygen, adsorption of the propane molecule, activation of C–H bonds and fast desorption of the propylene product from the catalytically active sites are very important. Pt-based catalysts have been used widely in PDH because of their selective activation of C–H bonds rather than C–C bonds. However, the dispersed Pt particles or species tend to aggregate during catalyst preparation and subsequent reaction, resulting in a reduced propylene selectivity and accelerated deactivation1. To prevent this, a second metal (for example, Sn13,14, Zn15,16, Ga17 or Mn18) can be incorporated. So far, Sn and Zn when confined respectively in the zeolite channels with Pt have been the two most promising options for the preparation of high-performance bimetallic PDH catalysts13,14,15,16,19. For example, subnanometric PtSn13 and PtZn15 bimetallic clusters encapsulated in the MFI zeolite have been successfully synthesized to improve the stability of Pt clusters, resulting in a high PDH performance. However, the real active sites for these two kinds of bimetallic PDH catalyst are different. Sun et al. proposed that the catalytically active species had the structure of a Pt–Zn alloy, with the PtZn4 alloy clusters exhibiting the best PDH performance15. By contrast, Liu et al. proposed that Pt and Sn possibly existed in the form of the Sn–O–Pt bond in the K-PtSn@MFI catalysts prepared19, rather than the well-established alloys mentioned in other literature reports20,21,22,23. Nevertheless, increasing studies have indicated that, for bimetallic Pt–metal alloy catalysts, the propylene selectivity and catalytic stability are improved at the expense of the PDH activity, even causing irreversible catalyst deactivation15,16,17,22. Therefore, developing encapsulated Pt clusters with a non-alloy structure is of great interest for the purpose of overcoming the activity–stability trade-off for PDH.
For zeolite-confined Pt catalysts, the as-prepared Ptx–O–My (M = Sn, Zn, among others) species tend to evolve into the less active PtM alloy during high-temperature pre-reduction or the PDH reaction operated above 550 °C. For example, we have shown that active Ptx clusters stabilized in Pt@Sn-Beta via Pt–O–Sn bonds can be partially transformed into the PtxSny alloy under either harsh pretreatment (calcination–reduction or direct reduction) or long-term reaction processes due to the unstable skeleton-Sn species, which leads to the eventual catalyst deactivation24. Furthermore, for the Sn-Beta-confined Pt catalysts, the location of the Pt species in the zeolite framework is hard to control due to the random distribution of skeleton-Sn species. Thus, alternative strategies are required to control the placement of guest Pt while inhibiting the reduction of framework heterometal atoms; moreover, zeolites with larger pores are needed to provide improved diffusion and accommodation capability for the guest metal source during wet-impregnation processes. As elements in the same group, the framework Ge4+ ion is more difficult to be reduced than the Sn4+ ion. Thus, the germanosilicate zeolites with abundant framework Ge4+ ions and extra-large pores are considered to be better candidates as the carriers25,26. However, they exhibit poor hydrothermal stability even at room temperature due to easy hydrolysis of the Ge–O bonds, which greatly limits their use. This does, however, endow them with structurally modifiable properties27,28,29,30,31. In particular, the assembly–disassembly–organization–reassembly (or ADOR) process can selectively destroy the double-four-membered-ring (d4r) subunits in germanosilicates to obtain two-dimensional (2D) layered intermediates27, which can be reassembled into a series of three-dimensional (3D) daughter structures28,29,30,31. Using such approaches, Pt32, Pd33 and Rh34 nanoparticles have been successfully encapsulated in some of the derived zeolites. Confining metal species within the interlamellar space during the transformation of 2D lamellar precursors into 3D zeolites is effective32,33,34,35; however; only specific zeolite structures with a modifiable interlayer structure are applicable for this approach.
Here we use an alternative strategy without any structural transformation during the process of encapsulating metals. We use a thermally/hydrothermally stable UTL-type germanosilicate (Ge-UTL), obtained via acidic treatment, as an alternative support to confine the Pt species, aiming to take advantage of its extra-large 14-membered-ring (14-MR) pores, high content of stable skeleton-Ge species and the specific d4r subunits. The Pt@Ge-UTL catalyst was readily prepared from the Ge-UTL carrier and H2PtCl6 via simple wet impregnation and subsequent H2 reduction. The special d4r building units and the Ge ions enriched therein cooperate synergistically to limit the location of Pt in the 14-MR channels, generating encapsulated subnanometric Pt clusters with ultra-high stability and a high PDH performance.
Results
Confining subnanometric Pt clusters in UTL-type zeolites
The aim of this study lies in the construction of a confined metal catalyst that demonstrates a heat-resistant structure, high porosity and subnanometric Pt clusters scattered in a well-defined location. To this end, a series of UTL-type zeolites with various Si/Ge atomic ratios (that is, 31–227) and stable skeleton structures were prepared to serve as the Pt supports. These were prepared via acid pickling of the as-made Ge-UTL (Si/Ge = 4.7) (for detailed information see Supplementary Note 1, Supplementary Figs. 1–7 and Supplementary Table 1), during which both structure protection by the organic structure-directing agents inside the pores and skeleton stabilization through replacement of the Ge atoms (mainly in the d4r units) with Si atoms was realized36. We used a calcined sample of the pristine Ge-UTL (named as UTL-C) as well as calcined samples of several acid-pickling-stabilized materials as the Pt supports, which were treated via simple wet impregnation, using chloroplatinic acid as the Pt precursor, all with the same Pt loading of 0.375 wt%. Supplementary Figure 8 shows the powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) patterns of the as-impregnated precursors without H2 reduction (where the suffix ‘P’ indicates the pristine sample, that is, before reduction). The crystalline structure of pristine UTL-C which has a high germanium content (Si/Ge = 4.7) was extremely unstable, and the UTL topological structure was destroyed after Pt impregnation in the aqueous system as a result of extensive hydrolysis of the skeleton Ge. Nevertheless, the supports prepared via acid pickling for ≥2 h endured Pt impregnation well as they possessed a highly stabilized skeleton structure. In addition, the textural properties of surface area and pore volume showed consistent results (Supplementary Fig. 9 and Supplementary Table 2). Compared with the pristine UTL-C sample, Pt impregnation led to a sharp decrease in the specific surface area and micropore volume for Pt-UTL-C-P. By contrast, the materials stabilized by acid pickling for ≥2 h maintained their porous structure well during Pt impregnation.
The inhibition of particle sintering and aggregation against high-temperature reduction is always preferred in the preparation of Pt nanoparticles or subnanoparticles. In our case, the Ge-UTL germanosilicates with a large skeleton-Ge content and a stabilized structure are promising to highly disperse and stabilize the Pt species. The PXRD patterns demonstrated that the final catalysts prepared from stabilized supports retained the original UTL structure and possessed a comparable crystallinity (Fig. 1a). Most importantly, no obvious diffraction attributed to large Pt particles was observed for these target catalysts after further H2 reduction (Fig. 1a), indicating that the Pt species are highly dispersed in the Pt-A-2h(31)-R, Pt-A-3h(44)-R, Pt-A-6h(52)-R and Pt-A-12h(58)-R catalysts (in the catalyst naming system used for Pt-A-xh(y)-R, Pt and A denote Pt impregnation and acid treatment, respectively, x is the acid-pickling time in hours, y denotes the corresponding Si/Ge molar ratio and R indicates direct H2 reduction). The stability of the thus-formed Pt nanoclusters under flowing H2 at different temperatures was monitored via in situ PXRD. As shown in Supplementary Figs. 10–13, with an increasing reduction temperature, the diffraction peaks related to the Pt and PtGe species remained invisible even after reduction at 600 °C, indicating that Pt or its bimetallic species formed with Ge was too small in size to be detected using the X-ray diffraction technique. These results strongly imply that the Pt species are highly dispersed and confined in the matrix or pores of the zeolite supports. The Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R catalyst was an exception and it showed a weak and broad diffraction of Pt(111) (Fig. 1a, 5), because the amount of skeleton Ge was not sufficient to immobilize and disperse the Pt species.
Fig. 1: Dispersity of Pt species in a series of UTL zeolites with different Si/Ge ratios.
a, Wide-angle PXRD patterns and enlarged reflections (inset) for catalysts Pt-A-2h(31)-R (1), Pt-A-3h(44)-R (2), Pt-A-6h(52)-R (3), Pt-A-12h(58)-R (4) and Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R (5). The dotted line in the inset indicates the diffraction peak position of the Pt(111) metal. b–g, TEM images of Pt-A-2h(31)-R (b,c), Pt-A-3h(44)-R (d), Pt-A-6h(52)-R (e), Pt-A-12h(58)-R (f) and Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R (g). h–k, Cs-corrected HAADF-STEM images of Pt-A-2h(31)-R at low (h) and high magnification (i–k). l,m, EDX elemental mapping images of Pt-A-2h(31)-R for Ge (l) and Pt (m). The insets in d–g and i–k show histograms of the Pt particle size distributions.
Source data
Full size image
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) experiments were performed to visually determine the size of the Pt species. No visible metal particles were observed in the reduced Pt-A-2h(31)-R sample when the images were obtained with a normal mode at either low or high magnification (Fig. 1b,c, respectively). For Pt-A-3h(44)-R, Pt-A-6h(52)-R and Pt-A-12h(58)-R with lower amounts of Ge, although the PXRD patterns did not show any Pt-species-related diffraction peaks, metal nanoparticles of 2–4 nm in size were detected in the TEM images at low magnification (Fig. 1d–f). With a prolonged acid-pickling time, the Ge content is gradually decreased, while the detectable metal particles increased in both number and particle size. In particular, the Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R sample prepared using the quasi-UTL-type silicate (Si/Ge = 227) as the carrier possessed much larger Pt nanoparticles (3–8 nm) that were unevenly distributed on the surface of the zeolite crystals (Fig. 1g). Therefore, it is impossible to confine the Pt species within the matrix or pores of a Ge-UTL zeolite that lacks sufficient skeleton-Ge species.
Subsequently, spherical-aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (Cs-corrected HAADF-STEM) revealed the presence of ultra-fine Pt clusters of 0.2–0.8 nm in size in the Pt-A-2h(31)-R sample (Fig. 1h–k and Supplementary Fig. 14a). The observed cluster sizes correspond to several Pt atoms, consistent with the in situ extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) results, which confirm that the Pt clusters in Pt-A-2h(31)-R comprise, on average, four Pt atoms (see EXAFS analysis in the later section on identification of the active species in Pt@Ge-UTL). The diffuse HAADF-STEM image contrast observed in some regions can be attributed to the fact that the Pt clusters separated along the projection direction appear to merge together in the projected image (Supplementary Fig. 14b) and should not be mistaken for larger particles. Similar illusions are actually common in the HAADF-STEM imaging of supported ultra-fine-cluster (or single-atom) noble metal catalysts11,15. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy elemental mapping reveals that Ge and Pt are uniformly distributed throughout the zeolite crystal (Fig. 1l,m). In summary, the Ge-UTL zeolite that contains sufficient skeleton-Ge species and a highly stable crystalline structure is a suitable support for achieving dispersed Pt loading.
To characterize the electronic state of Pt, infrared spectroscopy has been used widely to study carbon monoxide (CO) adsorbed on Pt. The CO vibration bands vary with their adsorption states (linear or bridged adsorption), which are closely related to the chemical environments of the Pt sites. The size and possible position of the Pt species in zeolites can therefore be quantitatively determined16,35,37,38,39. In situ infrared spectra with the CO probe molecule were collected for the Pt-supported UTL catalysts (Supplementary Fig. 15a). The linear adsorption of CO molecules on the surface of Pt species emerged for all the samples, although notably different bands were shown due to the varying proportions of Pt species with distinct chemical environments37. The band at 2,048 cm−1 is assigned to CO adsorption on the step or kink sites of the Pt(111) surface of large nanoparticles38, indicating the presence of large Pt species or particles on the external surface of the zeolite crystals35. The bands at 2,079 cm−1 and 2,010 cm−1 can be attributed to the symmetrical and asymmetrical stretching of Pt(CO)2 species, respectively, where the confined subnanometric Pt is coordinated by two CO molecules16. For further confirmation, we demonstrated the distribution by simulating the adsorption of CO on a theoretical structural model of Pt(111) (simulating the superficial Pt nanoparticles) and on Pt@UTL (Supplementary Fig. 15b,c, respectively). These theoretical calculations confirmed that the three adsorption peaks of 2,048, 2,079 and 2,010 cm−1 are ascribed, respectively, to CO linearly adsorbed on Pt(111) (simulating the superficial Pt nanoparticles) as well as the asymmetrical and symmetrical stretching modes of the Pt(CO)2 species. In particular, the two CO molecules in the Pt(CO)2 species are coordinated to Pt atoms that are not interacting with the zeolite framework of the zeolite-channel-confined subnanometric Pt clusters. The relative intensity of each vibration band shows a good correlation with the adsorption capacity of CO on Pt, and thus the ratio of Pt species at the different positions can be determined based on the band intensity. The Pt-A-2h(31)-R sample showed the strongest absorption band at 2,010 cm−1, indicating that almost all the Pt species were confined inside the UTL channels. However, when the Ge content in the carriers decreased successively with elongation of the pickling time, more Pt nanoparticles were located on the outer surface of the zeolite crystals, thus providing an intense band at 2,048 cm−1. Particularly in the case of the Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R sample that is almost Ge-free, the 2,048 cm−1 band dominated the infrared spectrum of CO adsorption, verifying that it contained numerous large-sized Pt species existing on the crystal surface rather than in the channels.
Similar results have also been demonstrated through a quasi in situ investigation using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Supplementary Fig. 16). The Pt 4f signal intensity of Pt-A-2h(31)-R was extremely weak and negligible in comparison with Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R. The Pt species in the Pt-A-2h(31)-R sample were almost undetected using the XPS surface-characterization technique, implying that they were mostly embedded inside the zeolite crystals. Nevertheless, the Pt species in the Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R sample were aggregated on the outer surface of the zeolite crystals due to the lack of adequate Ge for Pt anchoring. The Ge 3d XPS results showed the difference in the amount of Ge between Pt-A-2h(31)-R and Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R, indicating that the former contained more Ge atoms.
Catalytic PDH performance of the Pt@Ge-UTL catalysts
The catalytic PDH performance of the Pt@Ge-UTL catalysts with confined Pt and various Ge amounts was evaluated using a fixed-bed reactor and compared with that of a conventional Pt/Al2O3 catalyst. Figure 2a,b shows the propane (C3H8) conversion and propylene (C3H6) selectivity profiles of the various catalysts at 500 °C as a function of the time on stream (TOS). The results for TOS values of 2 h and 30 h are summarized and compared in Supplementary Table 3, and the propane conversion for the various catalysts as a function of the Si/Ge molar ratios are shown in Supplementary Fig. 17. The Pt-UTL-C(4.7)-R catalyst prepared using pristine Ge-UTL as the carrier was almost inactive for the PDH reaction, showing a negligible conversion of propane. The complete shielding of Pt sites by large particles of Ge metal and the structural collapse of the UTL zeolite accounted for the low activity of Pt-UTL-C(4.7)-R (Supplementary Fig. 18). However, the propane conversion was significantly improved on those catalysts prepared using the acid-pickling-stabilized UTL zeolites as supports, and was even much higher than that of the representative PDH catalyst Pt-Al2O3. Among them, the Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R catalyst displayed a lower catalytic activity and an unsatisfactory stability for propane conversion, which was most likely due to the large and non-uniform Pt particles formed as well as the lack of sufficient Ge sites for the anchoring and dispersal of Pt. With the increase in the remaining Ge content in the structurally stabilized UTL supports, the PDH activity and stability were gradually improved. In particular, the Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst showed the highest propane conversion together with the best stability. The propylene selectivity was slightly lower (87%) during the initial stage (TOS < 2 h), but increased gradually to 99% as the PDH reaction proceeded. Very similar catalytic behaviour was also observed for Pt-A-3h(44)-R. The side reaction catalysed by the acidity of the zeolite was possibly responsible for the lower propylene selectivity during the initial stage. The infrared spectra for pyridine adsorption revealed an inverse relationship between the acid concentration and the initial propylene selectivity (Supplementary Fig. 19). Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R, which contains the lowest Ge amount and has negligible acidity, provided a high propylene selectivity of 98% during the initial stage. By contrast, the initial propylene selectivity was lower for Pt-A-2h(31)-R and Pt-A-3h(44)-R, both of which have a higher content of Ge-related Lewis acid sites. Nevertheless, these acid sites would be gradually covered by coke as the reaction proceeds, meaning that the propylene selectivity improved continuously to reach a high level of >99%.
Fig. 2: Catalytic performance for the PDH reaction.
a,b, Propane conversion (a) and propylene selectivity (b) for the PDH reaction catalysed by various Pt catalysts as a function of the TOS. Reaction conditions: catalyst loading, 0.3 g; temperature, 500 °C; \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\), 0.75 h−1; N2:C3H8 molar ratio, 19; ambient pressure. c, TOS-dependent PDH performance of the Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst (0.3 g) under different conditions (at ambient pressure) for the following steps: (1) N2:C3H8, 19; \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\), 0.75 h−1; temperature, 500 °C; (2) N2:C3H8, 9; \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\), 1.5 h−1; temperature, 500 °C; (3) N2:C3H8, 4; \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\), 3 h−1; temperature, 500 °C; (4) N2:C3H8, 4; \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\), 6 h−1, temperature decreased from 450 to 400 °C; (5) restoration of the conditions for step 3; (6) N2:C3H8, 4; \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\), 6 h−1, temperature increased to 550 °C; (7) restoration of the initial conditions (step (1)). d, TOS-dependent PDH performance of Pt-A-2h(31)-R at high temperatures of 580 and 600 °C with different \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\) values of 4.8, 7.2, 9.6 and 12 h−1. Reaction conditions: catalyst loading, 0.1 g; pure C3H8 feed; ambient pressure.
Source data
Full size image
The optimal catalyst Pt-A-2h(31)-R then underwent a long-term stability evaluation for the PDH reaction, during which the partial pressure of propane (via the N2:C3H8 molar ratio), the weight hourly space velocity of propane (\({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\)) and the reaction temperature (T) were varied periodically (Fig. 2c). First, under the reaction conditions of catalyst loading = 0.3 g, \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\) = 0.75 h−1, propane concentration = 5%, reaction temperature = 500 °C and atmospheric pressure, Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalysed the PDH reaction stably for 1,520 h with a propane conversion of >54% and a propylene selectivity of >99% (Fig. 2c, step 1). The \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\) was then increased to 1.5 h−1 and 3 h−1 by varying the propane concentration to 10% and 20%, respectively, whilst retaining a constant feed flow (Fig. 2c, steps 2 and 3, respectively). Reasonably, the propane conversion decreased when the partial pressure of propane was increased, giving reduced average conversions of 44% and 34%. Nevertheless, the catalyst stability was not altered, and the PDH reaction proceeded stably for another 200 and 240 h, respectively, for steps 2 and 3. Next, the propane concentration was maintained at 20% and its feed flow was doubled. The temperature-dependent PDH performance was monitored continuously with the stepwise decrease in the reaction temperature from 450 to 400 °C at intervals of 10 °C for a total TOS of 350 h (Fig. 2c, step 4). The propane conversion decreased as the temperature was lowered, enabling a kinetic study. The reaction order for PDH catalysed by Pt-A-2h(31)-R at 500 °C and the apparent activation energy (Ea) of propane conversion were both calculated, which were about 0.65 and 65.4 kJ mol−1, respectively (Supplementary Fig. 20). Afterwards, maintaining the propane concentration at 20%, we restored the previous feed flow rate (3 h−1) and reaction temperature (500 °C). The propane conversion and propylene selectivity were both completely restored to their previous levels, where the reaction ran steadily for 900 h (Fig. 2c, step 5). Then, the feed flow was doubled at a propane concentration of 20%, while the reaction temperature was raised to 550 °C (Fig. 2c, step 6). At this higher temperature, the propane conversion was improved dramatically to 46%. Concurrently, the propylene selectivity was reduced slightly to 97%, which can be ascribed to the inevitable thermal cracking of hydrocarbons. After the catalyst had been subjected to 550 °C for a short period, the propylene selectivity improved gradually to ~99%, and the highly efficient PDH was stable for a further 500 h. Finally, we restored the reaction conditions to those of the initial step (step 1), and compared with the initial results of step 1 we observed no apparent change in either the propane conversion or propylene selectivity (Fig. 2c, step 7). Therefore, Pt-A-2h(31)-R is an ultra-stable catalyst that is capable of catalysing the PDH reaction stably and continuously for more than 4,200 h, irrespective of any wide changes in the partial pressure, space velocity of propane and reaction temperature. In addition, we carried out PDH over the Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst at higher temperatures (570–600 °C), as shown in Supplementary Fig. 21 and Supplementary Table 4. This catalyst still showed relatively high catalytic activity after a TOS of 30 h for a propane concentration of 30% and a \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\) of 6 h−1, and exhibited a low deactivation constant kd. The catalytic activity and stability are comparable with the results reported previously for PtZn and PtSn clusters13,14,15,16. The Pt contents of the Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst samples were assessed after the PDH reaction, and the results in Supplementary Table 4 show that only 1.8, 2.6, 3.7 and 5.2% Pt were lost after the PDH reaction at 570, 580, 590 and 600 °C, respectively. It is therefore confirmed that the Pt species are firmly confined in the zeolite channels and are hardly lost even at high reaction temperatures. To meet the needs of industrial application, under a pure propane feed, long-term PDH reactions were carried out over the Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst at 580 and 600 °C (Fig. 2d), during which the \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\) was varied continuously. Consistent with the results of the 30% propane feed, the stability of the catalyst at 580 °C was higher than that at 600 °C, although the initial activity was slightly lower at 580 °C. Moreover, a higher propylene selectivity (93–94%) was obtained at the lower temperature of 580 °C, much higher than that at 600 °C (85–89%). Under such high-temperature conditions, the induction period of the catalyst was obviously shortened compared with the reaction process at 500 °C (Fig. 2a), where the catalyst tended to be stable after 20 h of reaction. After the short induction period, Pt-A-2h(31)-R could stably catalyse the PDH reaction for a total of 180 h under four different \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\) values. It is worth mentioning that, even after such a long reaction time (200 h), no apparent Pt nanoparticles or PtGe alloy species were observed in the PXRD patterns of the used catalyst (Supplementary Fig. 22). This strongly indicates that, coupled with the strong confinement effect, it is difficult to reduce the framework Ge atoms in the stabilized UTL-type zeolite supports, resulting in a stable PDH catalyst. Thermogravimetric analysis (Supplementary Fig. 23) showed that, for each spent catalyst after 200 hours of the PDH reaction, carbon deposition at 600 °C is higher than that at 580 °C. Generally, with the continuous operation of the PDH reaction, the active sites will be gradually covered by coke deposits, leading to a decrease in activity. Since the carbon deposition behaviour cannot be completely prevented, an evaluation of the cyclic regeneration performance is important. The coke deposition on the used Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst can be removed via slow heating under an air atmosphere. The stability of the catalyst in such regeneration cycles is shown in Supplementary Fig. 24. For the PDH reaction catalysed at 580 °C, the propane conversion and propylene selectivity of the regenerated Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst are comparable to the fresh catalyst, even after four successive regeneration cycles. All of these results indicate that the catalyst shows potential for industrial applications.
Identification of active species in Pt@Ge-UTL
To determine the exact location of Pt in Pt@Ge-UTL catalysts, we acquired integrated differential phase contrast scanning transmission electron microscopy (iDPC-STEM) images40 for ultra-stable Pt-A-2h(31)-R and Pt-free UTL-C. Before iDPC-STEM imaging, the specimen was heated in air at 550 °C for 3 h to remove any organic species adsorbed in the zeolite channels41 and immediately transferred to the microscope for imaging. The iDPC-STEM images (Supplementary Fig. 25) acquired from the Pt-free UTL-C sample show empty channels, confirming that the adsorbed organic species can be removed effectively via heating treatment. The iDPC-STEM images of Pt-A-2h(31)-R show clear contrasts inside the 14-MR channels, which are apparently off-centre in the channel but close to the d4r units (Fig. 3a,b). The observed species in the 14-MR channels of the UTL can be ascribed to the subnanometric Pt clusters. Interestingly, the iDPC-STEM images obtained along the [010] direction (Fig. 3c,d) show that the 12-MR channels are empty, without any extra contrast as observed in the 14-MR channels. This implies that the Pt species occupy a specific position in the UTL channels, possibly related to the pore structure as well as the local enrichment of skeleton-Ge species (for example, the d4r unit). Based on an in-depth understanding of the UTL topological structure (aperture size and distortion) and the iDPC-STEM images, the distribution of Pt species in the UTL channels is described schematically in Fig. 3e,f. The Pt species are visible in the 14-MR channels along the z axis but are hardly observed in the 12-MR channels along the y axis as they are more favourably anchored by the Ge-enriched d4r units.
Fig. 3: Location of subnanometric Pt species within the channels of UTL topology.
a–d, iDPC-STEM images of Pt-A-2h(31)-R viewed along the [001] (a,b) and [010] (c,d) directions with volatile organic carbon species removed by high-temperature calcination, where the insets in a and c show the experimental selected area electron diffraction patterns and the topology diagram of the corresponding plane. The schematic models in b and d with the embed Pt species are viewed on the same projections. e,f, 3D structure diagrams at different orientations showing the possible location of the Pt species in the UTL channels, based on the iDPC-STEM images.
Full size image
To provide more solid proof on whether or not and how the skeleton-Ge sites interact with the Pt species to induce an orientated dispersion, an in situ X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) study was carried out on Pt-A-2h(31)-R and compared with monometallic reference compounds (Fig. 4). For Pt-A-2h(31)-R after H2 treatment in situ, Ptδ+ (0 < δ < 1) was clearly observed in the Pt L3-edge normalized X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectrum (Fig. 4a) and the valence state of Pt was accurately determined via linear combination fitting (Supplementary Fig. 26). It was clarified that the Pt species exist in an average positive valence state of 0.576 (Supplementary Table 5). Moreover, EXAFS was used to detect the local atomic structure and acquire the structural parameters of coordination number and bond length values. As shown in Fig. 4b, the radial distance χ(R) space spectra for Pt L3-edge of Pt-A-2h(31)-R showed a prominent peak located at around 2.16 Å, attributed to the scattering path of Pt–O bonds, as well as a negligible signal of the Pt–Pt bond at around 2.65 Å with the tiny coordination number (CN) of Pt–Pt bonding approaching 3 [CN = N × amp = 3.0 × (0.83 ± 0.14); N: nominal number; amp: amplitude], indicating that Pt species were highly dispersed with an extremely low aggregation degree (for details see Supplementary Table 6). By contrast, except for the obvious hybrid scattering-path contribution of Pt–O and Pt–Cl bonds, a strong scattering path of Pt–Pt bonds emerged at 2.81 Å in Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R, indicating the formation of large Pt particles. This was consistent with the abovementioned PXRD (Fig. 1a) and TEM results (Fig. 1g). The Ge K-edge normalized XANES spectra shown in Fig. 4c compared the reference materials of Ge foil and GeO2 with the Ge species in Pt-A-2h(31)-R. The latter exhibited an oxidation state of Ge4+, suggesting that the skeleton-Ge species were not reduced. No scattering-path signal of Ge–Ge bonds was observed, indicating that the Ge sites were atomically isolated in the zeolite skeleton. These results are consistent with the earlier H2 temperature-programmed reduction data (Supplementary Fig. 7). The scattering path of Ge–O–Pt bonds was observed at ~2.93 Å in Pt-A-2h(31)-R (Fig. 4d), which confirmed that the Pt atom was fixed on the Ge-UTL zeolite through the formation of Pt–O–Ge bonds. The scattering path assigned to Ge–O–Si bonds at 3.32 Å was also observed. Furthermore, the 3D contour wavelet transform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (WTEXAFS) maps with 2D projection, and the quantitative χ(R) space spectra and χ(k) space spectra fitting curves clearly and intuitively demonstrated the local Pt and Ge coordination environments in Pt-A-2h(31)-R and Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R (Fig. 4e–h, Supplementary Figs. 27 and 28).
Fig. 4: Characterization of the chemical states and coordination environments of Pt and Ge.
a,b, Pt L3-edge normalized XANES spectra (a) and radial distance χ(R) spectra (b) of Pt-A-2h(31)-R and Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-R. c,d, Ge K-edge normalized XANES spectra (c) and radial distance χ(R) spectra (d) of Pt-A-2h(31)-R. e,f, Quantitative χ(R) space spectra fitting curves of Pt L3-edge (e) and Ge K-edge (f) of Pt-A-2h(31)-R. R-mag: R space magnitude part; R-re: R space real part. g,h, 3D contour WTEXAFS maps of Pt L3-edge (g) and Ge K-edge (h) with 2D projection of Pt-A-2h(31)-R. Corresponding reference materials: Pt foil, H2PtCl6, PtO2, PtCl2, Ge foil and GeO2. All the samples were reduced in situ using pure H2 at 500 °C for 1 h before data collection.
Source data
Full size image
Subsequent XAFS results on the catalyst precursors without H2 reduction clarified that skeleton-Ge-induced anchoring of guest Pt (from H2PtCl6) was the key to the formation of such Pt–O–Ge species (for detailed results see Supplementary Note 2). For the catalyst precursor Pt-A-2h(31)-P, Pt4+ was clearly observed (Supplementary Fig. 29a), and the radial distance χ(R) space Pt spectra showed a peak at ~2.24 Å corresponding to the Pt–Cl bonds (Supplementary Fig. 29b), together with an additional peak for Pt–O bonds at 1.69 Å in the first coordination shell, although no scattering-path signal of Pt–Pt bonds. The scattering path of Ge–O–Pt bonds located at 2.92 Å was clearly observed in radial distance χ(R) Ge spectra of Pt-A-2h(31)-P, which confirmed that the Pt atom was already anchored through Pt–O–Ge bonds during the impregnation process when preparing Pt-A-2h(31)-P (Supplementary Figs. 29d and 30b). By contrast, Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-P displayed only Pt–Cl bonding in the first coordination shell with the coordination number of the Pt–Cl bonding approaching 6 [CN = N × amp = 6.0 × (1.12 ± 0.11)], as investigated through quantitative χ(R) space spectra fitting (Supplementary Fig. 30c and Supplementary Table 7). This convincingly demonstrated that the guest Pt only existed as an independent precursor of H2PtCl6 in Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-P due to the lack of sufficient Ge anchoring sites. The χ(k) space spectra fitting curves and 3D contour WTEXAFS maps with 2D projection for Pt-A-2h(31)-P and Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-P are also provided in Supplementary Fig. 31. In addition, to visualize the bonding of the Pt and Ge species individually or with each other during preparation of the catalysts (that is, via impregnation and reduction), the FT k3χ(R) Pt L3-edge and Ge K-edge EXAFS results of Pt-A-2h(31)-P(R) and Pt-A-24h-twice(227)-P(R) are given in Supplementary Fig. 32.
Analysis via in situ XAFS provided evidence for the formation of Pt–O–Ge bonding after H2 reduction, but the exact position of the Pt species still needed to be specified. The Ge location will determine the positioning of Pt species through metal–metal interactions. Previous 19F magic-angle-spinning (MAS) NMR studies have proved that the majority of Ge is enriched in the interlamellar d4r units, while only a small number of Ge species exist in the UTL layers in the hydrothermally synthesized Ge-UTL carrier, even when it has a relatively high Ge content42,43. Therefore, we also obtained 19F MAS NMR spectra to ascertain the Ge location in both the acid-pickling-stabilized carrier A-2h(31) and the catalyst Pt-A-2h(31)-R. Figure 5a,b shows the resonances of the fluorine species occluded in the d4r units, where their chemical shifts depend on the relative Ge distribution therein. Supplementary Table 8 summarizes the attributions and quantified area data of the resonances with different chemical shifts. Through either increasing the Si proportion or lowering the Ge content in the d4r units, the NMR signals shifted to higher field. In the 19F NMR spectra, the signals at –6.9, –10.6, –19.0 and –36.3 ppm are attributed to the d4r units composed of the [4Si, 4Ge], [5Si, 3Ge], [7Si, 1Ge] and [8Si, 0Ge] configurations, respectively44,45,46. The two samples showed similar 19F NMR spectra, indicative of the unchanged elemental compositions in the d4r units upon Pt impregnation and further reduction. Normalizing the areas of the Ge-content-dependent 19F NMR signals enabled calculation of the Si/Ge ratio in the d4r units, which was 6.0 for A-2h(31) and 5.9 for Pt-A-2h(31)-R. These values were much lower than the bulk Si/Ge ratio of 31 as given by inductively coupled plasma analysis. The schematic diagram of the UTL topology (Supplementary Fig. 33) shows that there are 76 ‘T’ atoms in each unit cell, which contains two d4r units comprising 16 ‘T’ atoms. On the basis of the Si/Ge ratios (5.9–6.0) of the d4r units obtained via 19F NMR investigation, we can calculate that the amount of Ge in the d4r units accounts for 95–96% of that of the entire UTL crystal. This strongly implies that the remaining Ge after acid stabilization is located predominately in the d4r units. Thus, the orientated anchoring and location of the Pt species can be realized through chemical interaction with the skeleton-Ge species that are precisely located in the d4r units. In fact, the aforementioned iDPC-STEM images in Fig. 3 showed that the subnanometric Pt clusters were close to the d4r units, and here the determination of the exact Ge location provided more direct evidence for the placement of Pt species. According to above characterizations, the possible structures with the Ge and Pt positionings are shown in Fig. 5c,d for the support A-2h(31) and the Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst, respectively.
Fig. 5: Positions of Ge atoms in the support and Pt-confined catalyst.
a–d, 19F MAS NMR spectra (a,b) and possible structural models (c,d) of the Pt-free support A-2h(31) (a,c) and the catalyst Pt-A-2h(31)-R (b,d).
Source data
Full size image
Construction of the theoretical structure using DFT calculations
On the basis of 19F MAS NMR characterization, the Ge dopants are highly enriched in the d4r units of the optimal support A-2h(31) (hereafter referred to as Ge-UTL for conciseness) and the average number of Ge species in each d4r unit is close to 1.2. Therefore, the Ge2-d4r structure with an average Ge/Si ratio of about 2/6 in each d4r was used for our subsequent calculations. We first considered the specific location of the Ge atoms in the d4r unit, as shown in Supplementary Fig. 34. The energetically most favourable structure (Supplementary Fig. 34a) was selected to simulate the Ge-UTL zeolite. Based on the TEM and Cs-corrected HAADF-STEM images, the Pt species in Ge-UTL possessed a smaller size than that in high-silica UTL, indicating that the skeleton Ge can effectively stabilize and disperse the Pt species. This can be understood on the basis of Bader charge analysis. Specifically, the Bader charge of framework O adjacent to Ge is −1.34 e−, which is larger than the value without Ge (−1.58 e−). The results indicate that the O adjacent to Ge is electron deficient, leading to more electron transfer from the Pt clusters to the zeolite framework oxygen (Fig. 6a), thus contributing to the stronger binding ability with the Pt clusters.
Fig. 6: Calculation results for constructing the theoretical structure.
a, Charge density difference between Pt4@Ge-UTL (left) and Pt4@Si-UTL (right). Blue, red and grey balls represent silicon, oxygen and platinum, respectively; the cyan and yellow regions represent electron depletion and accumulation, respectively. b, Calculated energies of the Pt4@Ge-UTL structures along the 14-MR ((i)–(iv)) and 12-MR ((v)–(viii)) channels with different Pt4 locations, where the atom colours are as in Fig. 5c,d. The relative stability of the different Pt4@Ge-UTL structures was evaluated through the relative energy (Erel) of a specific model with respect to the most stable model (iii) (with the lowest energy calculated using density functional theory (DFT)): Erel = E − Emost stable, where E is the DFT-calculated energies of specific structures.
Full size image
According to the iDPC-STEM and in situ XAFS results, Pt4 was chosen as the reasonable research target of the subnanometric clusters in the subsequent theoretical calculation model. Moreover, referring to the iDPC-STEM images, we observed Pt clusters only along the 14-MR channels, and no clusters were identified along the 12-MR channels. Thus, a series of models with the Pt cluster encapsulated within the 14-MR or 12-MR channels was constructed and their energies were calculated. As shown in Fig. 6b, the most stable structure among the 14-MR channels is (iii), in which two Pt atoms coordinate with framework O to form the Pt–O–Ge moiety; in addition, the most stable structure inside the 12-MR channels is (viii), in which the Pt4 cluster does not form any chemical bonds with the zeolite framework and thus exhibits a higher energy (5.8 kJ mol−1). Moreover, we experimentally found that the Pt clusters can be better stabilized in the UTL topology compared with other Ge-UTL-derived daughter zeolites with fewer d4r units (for example, the reference materials ECNU-15 and ECNU-14, which contain degraded d4r units—for information on their structures and catalytic properties see Supplementary Note 3 and Supplementary Figs. 35–40). Thus, the d4r units are also considered to play an important role in stabilizing the Pt clusters. To verify such an assumption, we constructed a series of structures with Pt4 clusters located at different positions in the UTL topology (Supplementary Fig. 41 and Supplementary Table 9). In these results, a lower energy indicates better stability for the Pt4@UTL structure. Consequently, it was found that the Pt4 cluster anchored on a d4r unit with Pt–O–Ge bonds shows better stability than that fixed on a non-d4r unit with Pt–O–Ge bonds, followed by that located at a d4r unit with Pt–O–Si bonds, and the worst stability was without bonding to the zeolite framework. These results clearly revealed that the d4r units and the skeleton-Ge dopants therein can jointly promote the stabilization of Pt clusters. Based on the above results, the structure in Fig. 6b(iii) (which is the same as structure (a) in Supplementary Fig. 41) possesses the lowest energy, indicating that it is a more rational structure to represent the real active sites in Pt4@Ge-UTL. Meanwhile, a comparison of the energy among the different structures also explains the reason why Pt@Ge-UTL is more stable than Pt@Si-UTL, that is, the Pt clusters anchored to the d4r units via Pt–O–Ge bonding are far more stable than those on high-silica or even pure silicate supports, prohibiting aggregation during the subsequent high-temperature reaction process. To further verify the rationality of this structure, the structural properties between the theoretical model and the fitted data from the in situ XAFS measurements were compared. The earlier in situ XAFS results (Fig. 4b) demonstrated that Pt@Ge-UTL contains the Pt–O–Ge moiety with a Pt–Pt bond length of 2.65 Å. In Supplementary Fig. 42, the average length of the Pt–Pt bond is 2.57 Å in the optimized Pt4@Ge-UTL structure, which is roughly consistent with the experimental value. By comparison, the Pt–Pt bond length in optimized Pt3@Ge-UTL is about 2.51 Å, which shows a larger difference with the experimental value. Moreover, we note that the experimental value ascribed to the Pt–O–Ge bond scattering path is 2.93 Å (Fig. 4d), which is slightly higher than the average distance between Pt and Ge of 2.72 Å in the Pt4@Ge-UTL structural model. This is because the Pt–O–Ge bond scattering path in the second coordination layer observed via EXAFS is affected by the averaging of the longer Ge–O–Si bond. We further compared the formation energy of Pt3 and Pt4 clusters inside 14-MR channels, where the formation energy is defined as \(E_{{\mathrm{form}}} = E_{{\mathrm{composite}}} - E_{{\mathrm{UTL}}} - E_{{\mathrm{Pt}}_{n}}\), where Ecomposite, EUTL and \(E_{{\mathrm{Pt}}_{n}}\) represent the energy of the composite, the parent UTL zeolite and the Ptn clusters, respectively, and the formation of the Pt4 cluster is more energetically favourable (Eform = −899.2 kJ mol−1; Supplementary Fig. 42). To summarize, Pt clusters with an average of 4 atoms (Pt4) anchored on the Ge2-d4r configuration via Pt–O–Ge bonding confined in the 14-MR channels of the UTL topology (Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL) are the most thermodynamically stable and demonstrate a great advantage in their formation.
In this study, to verify further the matching score between the real structure of the optimal catalyst (Pt-A-2h(31)-R) and the calculated theoretical model (Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL; the structure in Fig. 6b(iii)), pair distribution function (PDF) G(r) analysis was carried out. First, the high-quality X-ray total scattering data for Pt-A-2h(31)-R were measured under synchrotron radiation, as shown in Fig. 7a, where the 2D X-ray diffraction image is also presented in the inset. Then, full-range synchrotron PDF G(r) analysis was performed for Pt-A-2h(31)-R as well as the corresponding real-space Rietveld refinement analyses for Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL, as shown in Fig. 7b, where the output parameters (reduced χsq = 0.0617 and Rw = 0.0678) are shown in Supplementary Table 10. Clearly, good fitting results of the observed G(r) spectra with a reasonable R factor were obtained between the experimental sample Pt-A-2h(31)-R and the theoretically constructed Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL, indicating that the structure of the real catalyst is consistent with the theoretical model. As a proxy, the peaks labelled 1–20 in Fig. 7b can be assigned well to the atomic-pair distance values in the structure model: label 1 denotes the Si–O and Ge–O pairs of the UTL framework; the slightly longer atomic-pair distance in label 2 with the highest strength indicates the combination of O–O, O–Pt, Pt–Pt and Ge–Pt; label 3 indicates the short-distance Pt–O and Pt–Si atomic pairs; and the various other longer-distance atomic pairs of Pt–O and Pt–Si that are indicated by labels 4–20 are probably attributed to the correlation of Si or O on the far hole sites with the Pt species, as well as the combination and symmetry operation of the unit cell in space (Supplementary Table 11). It is worth noting that the preferred fit for Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL is to the distorted structure model with the space group P1, indicating that Pt doping at a specific position changes the long-range symmetry of the UTL support. These experimental and theoretical results clearly demonstrate the formation of a novel active site, Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL, for the efficient catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propylene.
Fig. 7: Validation of the Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL structure model.
a, Synchrotron radiation X-ray diffraction (SRXRD) pattern (inset: 2D X-ray diffraction image). b, Full-range synchrotron PDF analysis for Pt-A-2h(31)-R, with the corresponding Rietveld refinement of Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL and the calculated partial PDF patterns of the Pt–Ge distance (inset: unit cell of the optimized structural model).
Source data
Full size image
Theoretical insight into the PDH process using DFT
Based on the catalysis results, the Pt catalysts prepared using hydrothermally stable Ge-UTL (Si/Ge = 31) as the support exhibited superior activity and stability in comparison with the counterpart support of high-silica UTL (Si/Ge = 227) (hereafter referred to as Si-UTL for conciseness). Here Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL as described above was selected to simulate the optimal catalyst, while the Pt(111) slab was constructed to simulate the reference Pt-Si-UTL catalyst because we observed large Pt nanoparticles in this catalyst. The corresponding models of the various transition states are presented in Fig. 8a,b, and the full potential energy diagram of the PDH reaction for these models is presented in Fig. 8c. The synchronous structural models for the intermediates in the 12- and 14-MR channels of the UTL topology over the Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL sites are demonstrated in Supplementary Fig. 43. In the following discussion, intermediate names with an asterisk (*) indicate that they are adsorbed on the surfaces. On the Pt(111) surface (Fig. 8b,c), the first dehydrogenation step produces the intermediate C3H7* and detached H* species bonded at the top site of the Pt atom. This process is endothermic by 24.2 kJ mol−1 with a barrier of 79.1 kJ mol−1. Then, the second H* detached from a methyl group bonds at a bridge site of the Pt(111) surface, which is endothermic by 62.7 kJ mol−1 and must overcome a barrier of 78.2 kJ mol−1. The subsequent steps involve the desorption of C3H6*, H* transfer and H2 combination to regenerate the catalyst surface. The energy barriers for these three steps are −1.9, −9.6 and 50.5 kJ mol−1, respectively. Our calculated energy barriers for C–H bond cleavage are comparable to the data from previous literature reports47. Over the Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL surface (Fig. 8a,c), the coordination number of Pt is 3, which is much lower than that in the Pt(111) slab, and contributes to the lower barrier of the first dehydrogenation step (21.2 kJ mol−1 versus 79.1 kJ mol−1; Fig. 8c). After cleavage of the C–H bond, the two detached H atoms separately bond at a bridge site which coordinates with the two Pt atoms. The first dehydrogenation step is exothermic by 65.6 kJ mol−1 with an energy barrier of 21.2 kJ mol−1, and the second dehydrogenation step is endothermic by 56.0 kJ mol−1 with a barrier of 83.0 kJ mol−1 (Fig. 8c). After the desorption of C3H6, the remaining two H* atoms can combine directly to form H2 without H* transfer due to the short distance between them. This process requires a reaction energy of 127.4 kJ mol−1. Finally, the H2 species desorbs to restore the catalyst surface with a desorption energy of 22.2 kJ mol−1. We then carried out kinetics simulations on the microscopic level to obtain more detailed insights into the catalytic performance. As shown in Supplementary Fig. 44, the first dehydrogenation step acts as the rate-determining step with the highest degree-of-rate-control value under the reaction conditions for both investigated models, consistent with the reported Pt-based PDH studies48,49. For the Pt(111) surface, the first dehydrogenation step must overcome the largest energy barrier (Fig. 8c). For the Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL site, despite the second dehydrogenation having a higher barrier and H2 formation exhibiting the highest energy barrier in the calculated energy diagram, the rate-determining step is the first dehydrogenation step because the reaction rate for the second dehydrogenation and H2 formation steps is restricted by the concentration of C3H7* and H* species, respectively (that is, the product of the first dehydrogenation step). In addition, the reaction activation energies over the Pt(111) slab and the Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL surface were also calculated (Fig. 8d). The calculated activation energy for Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL is close to the experimental value (Supplementary Fig. 20b) and lower than that for Pt(111). Combining the DFT calculations and microscopic kinetics simulations, we can conclude that the catalyst with the Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL structure can effectively lower the energy barrier of the first dehydrogenation step, which is the rate-determining step of the entire PDH reaction, and thus promote the PDH reaction rate.
Fig. 8: Calculation results for the theoretical PDH process.
a,b, Structural models of the intermediates for the PDH reaction over Pt(111) (a) and Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL sites (b). TS, transition state. c,d, Calculated potential energy diagram for the PDH reaction (c) and simulated apparent activation energy as a function of temperature (d) over Pt(111) and Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL sites.
Source data
Full size image
Conclusions
In summary, we have succeeded in confining subnanometric Pt clusters inside the 14-MR channels of a structurally stable Ge-UTL zeolite via Pt–O–Ge bonds. Such highly dispersed and distinctly localized Pt species were formed though the synergistic cooperation between Ge-enriched d4r units and the confining effects of the extra-large pores of the UTL topology. iDPC-STEM, in situ XAFS, 19F MAS NMR and full-range synchrotron PDF G(r) analyses enabled us to experimentally determine the chemical structure and exact location of the Pt active species. The reliability of the catalyst structure and its reaction kinetics were theoretically confirmed via DFT calculations. The catalyst with the Pt4-Ge2-d4r@UTL structure exhibits a high catalytic activity, high propylene selectivity and an ultra-high stability for the PDH reaction. This study not only establishes the preparation of a high-performance PDH catalyst using stabilized germanosilicates as the support for precisely located metal species but also is expected to impact our understanding of metal active species confined in heteroatom-containing zeolites.
Methods
Preparation of the Pt@Ge-UTL catalyst with the highest stability
Following our previous method36, we first synthesized the UTL-type germanosilicate-containing structure guide agent (named UTL-P), and the UTL-P was then treated in a Teflon liner with a nitric acid aqueous solution (1 M) at a liquid-to-solid ratio of 30 ml:1 g. After stirring at room temperature for 30 min, the liner was covered and placed in an autoclave and heated in an oven at 190 °C for 2 h. After filtration, washing, drying and calcination, the obtained material, which was named A-2h(31), possessed a stable UTL structure and a Si/Ge molar ratio of 31. The A-2h(31) material was used as an optimal carrier for synthesis of the Pt@Ge-UTL catalyst (Pt loading = 0.375 wt%) via an impregnation method using an aqueous solution of H2PtCl6, the concentration of which was 0.5 mg ml−1. The impregnated sample was dried at 80 °C for 12 h to obtain the catalyst precursor Pt-A-2h(31)-P, which was subsequently reduced in situ at 500 °C under a H2 flow, resulting in the Pt-A-2h(31)-R catalyst.
Catalytic PDH reaction studies
The PDH reaction was carried out at atmospheric pressure using a fixed-bed reactor. The specific operation process was as follows: the catalyst precursor (300 or 100 mg) was separated into 40–60 mesh particles using a tablet sieve and placed in a quartz reaction tube (length, 300 mm; inner diameter, 10 mm; wall thickness, 1 mm). The reactor was heated to 500 °C at a rate of 10 °C min−1 in high-purity hydrogen at a flow rate of 20 ml min–1 for 2 h. After this pre-reduction step, the catalyst was kept under a nitrogen atmosphere for 5 min to passivate the catalyst surface. For reactions at 550, 580 and 600 °C, the reactor needs was heated to the appropriate temperature under a continuous nitrogen atmosphere. After that, either the mixture gas (C3H8 and N2) or pure C3H8 was introduced into the reactor, and the PDH reaction was carried out at various \({\mathrm{WHSV}}_{({\mathrm{C}}_{3}{\mathrm{H}}_{8})}\) values. Data were collected continuously throughout with the reaction. The product was analysed via online gas chromatography (GC-2014, Shimadzu) using a hydrogen flame ionization detector and an HP-Plot Q chromatographic column.

</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
