 <quotes>
1. To prepare the bimetallic catalysts, a solution containing the Pt and Sn precursors was added to the zeolite synthesis gel. The resultant mixture was then hydrothermally treated to incorporate isolated Pt and Sn species into the zeolite framework. 
2. The PtSn clusters are mainly located in the sinusoidal channels. Even though coke formation is associated with catalytic events occurring at the metal surface, the resulting carbonaceous species seem not to remain directly blocking the active sites. The extended lifetimes of the K-PtSn@MFI-600H2-12h and K-PtSn@MFI-600H2-22h samples could be associated with much less deposition of coke on the PtSn clusters, leading to lower deactivation rates.
3. No relevant quotes
4. In situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was used to investigate the chemical states of Pt and Sn during H2 reduction at 600C. CO infrared spectroscopy was also performed in situ after reduction treatments to characterize the PtSn clusters. 
5. High-resolution high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HR-HAADF-STEM) and integrated differential phase contrast (iDPC) imaging were utilized to visualize the location of Pt and Sn species within the zeolite at the atomic level. K-means clustering analysis of the HR-HAADF-STEM images provided insights into the spatial distribution of Pt and Sn species.
6. Pt L3-edge and Sn K-edge XAS were measured during H2 reduction to monitor changes in the oxidation states and coordination environments of Pt and Sn. The Sn K-edge XANES spectra showed reduction of Sn(IV) species to Sn(II) during H2 treatment.
7. No evaluation of different reactor types was provided.
</quotes>

<English version answer>
1. The article describes a one-pot synthesis method to incorporate isolated Pt and Sn species into the zeolite framework by adding the metal precursors to the zeolite synthesis gel before hydrothermal treatment.

2. The article shows that encapsulating the PtSn clusters inside the zeolite channels enhances catalyst stability for propane dehydrogenation by reducing coke deposition on the active sites. 

3. No relevant quotes

4. The article utilizes in-situ XAS and infrared spectroscopy to study changes in the metal oxidation states, coordination environments, and electronic properties during H2 reduction treatments.

5. The article employs HR-HAADF-STEM and iDPC imaging to visualize isolated Pt and Sn atoms and clusters within the zeolite framework and investigate metal-support interfaces.

6. The article uses XAS to show reduction of Pt and Sn species during H2 treatment at high temperatures.

7. No evaluation of different reactor types was provided.
</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>
1. 该文介绍了一种一锅合成方法,通过在水热处理之前向沸石合成凝胶中添加金属前体来掺入隔离的Pt和Sn种类到沸石框架中。

2. 该文表明,将PtSn簇封装在沸石通道内可以通过减少活性位点上的焦炭沉积来增强丙烷脱氢反应的催化剂稳定性。

3. 没有相关引用

4. 该文利用原位X射线吸收光谱和红外光谱技术来研究H2还原处理过程中金属氧化态、配位环境和电子性质的变化。

5. 该文采用高分辨暗场STEM和集成差分相反射图像来可视化沸石框架内的隔离Pt和Sn原子及簇,并研究金属与载体的界面。

6. 该文使用X射线吸收光谱表明,在高温H2处理下,Pt和Sn物种发生还原。

7. 没有提供对不同反应器类型的评估。
</Chinese version answer>
