<DOCUMENT>
Non-ideal characteristics in a micro packed-bed reactor: A coupled reaction-transport CFD analysis for propane dehydrogenation
Highlights
•
Propane dehydrogenation reaction was analyzed with porous media CFD model.
•
Propane conversion was affected by non-uniform distributions.
•
Space velocity could influence the temperature uniformity.
•
The mixed packing can effectively suppress non-uniform distributions.
Abstract
Kinetic experiments can be significantly influenced by fluidic effects and transport limitations within reactors, particularly for strongly exo- and endo-thermic reactions. This paper describes the influence non-uniform physical fields, e.g. temperature, velcocity and species concentration, on the determination of kinetic parameters for endothermic systems with propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a model process, which was analyzed using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) method based on the porous media model. Propane conversions calculated from 3-D porous media model at various conditions have discrepancies from the reported experimental data and 1-D numerical regression. This is due to the application of kinetic parameters obtained from 1-D plug flow assumption to the 3-D model with inhomogeneous temperature distributions. In the kinetic analysis, it is found that the low space velocity may lead to backward diffusion but can be a preference to minimize the temperature gradients within the catalyst bed. On the other hand, the commonly used higher space velocity may enlarge the temperature inhomogeneity. The sensitivity of temperature distribution with various reaction conditions is further analyzed. In addition, with respect to the packed bed properties, a high thermal conductivity and low loading of catalysts can reduce the non-uniformity of temperature distribution. Therefore, it is proposed that a mixed packing scheme with lower catalyst concentration and higher thermal conductivity could effectively suppress temperature gradients in kinetic analysis. This study exemplifies the necessity to consider the non-ideal distribution of physical fields for the kinetic study of reactions with strong thermal effects.
Graphical abstract.
Download : Download high-res image (93KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Nomenclature
A/V
surface-to-volume ratio, m−1
Cp
specific heat capacity, J·kg−1·K−1
D
tube diameter, mm
DM
effective diffusion coefficient in mixture, kg·m−1·s−1
DT
effective thermal diffusion coefficient, kg·m−1·s−1
dp
particle diameter, mm
Ea
activation energy, kJ·mol−1
g
gravitational acceleration, m·s−2
h
mixture specific enthalpy, J·kg−1
hext
external convective heat transfer coefficient, W·m−2·K−1
J
diffusive mass flux, kg·m−2·s−1
Jq
diffusive heat flux, J·m−2·s−1
JH
heat transfer factor
K
thermodynamic equilibrium constant
ki
reaction rate constant
Ki
adsorption rate constant
l
bed length, mm
mcat
loaded catalyst mass, mg
N
diameter ratio
p
static pressure, Pa
qs
heat through the wall, W·m−2
Rdilu
mass dilution ratio
R
net production rate, kg·s−1
Re
Reynold number
S
source term
Sc
Schmidt number
T
temperature, K
v
velocity, m·s−1
Vg
gas flow rate, mL·min−1
x, y, z
cartesian coordinates, m
X
molar fraction
Y
mass fraction
β
gas-solid heat transfer coefficient, W·m−2·K−1
ΔH
adsorption heat, kJ·mol−1
δ
Kronecker delta
ε
porosity/void fraction
εs
surface emissivity of stainless iron
λ
thermal conductivity, W·m−1·K−1
μ
fluid viscosity, Pa·s
ρ
mass density, kg·m−3
σ
Stefan-Boltzmann constant, W·m−2·K−4
τ
stress tensor
tortuosity factor
Sub- and superscripts
bed
bed (properties)
cat
catalyst
cracking
propane cracking
deH
propane dehydrogenation
eff
effective
exp
experiment
ext
external
g
gas (phase)
h
heat/energy
i, j, k
orthogonal directions
M
mixture (properties)
m
momentum
mix
mixed packing
n
specie/section number
p
particle
phy
physical
s
solid
sec
sectionalized packing
w
wall
1. Introduction
The kinetic research of catalysts can not only relate the reaction rate to a kinetic mechanism, but also instruct the design and operation of industrial reactors (Chorkendorff and Niemantsverdriet, 2003). Historically, the kinetic research has depended on experimental methods, with the reaction rate description summarized into an empirical form (power-law) or mechanistic form (e.g., Langmuir-Hinshelwood-Hougen-Watson, LHHW). Kinetic experiments of solid catalysts are usually carried out in catalyst testing units at laboratory scales (Kapteijn and Moulijn, 2008). In a conventional layout, the catalyst is loaded in a tubular reactor with gas reactants flowing through the packed bed, within which the temperature and the pressure can be controlled. At the outlet, the products are sampled and analyzed with various techniques, such as gas chromatography (GC), Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, or mass spectrometry (MS). With the quantitative balance of elements, the conversions under different reaction conditions can be calculated (Zhang et al., 2019). Meanwhile, the rate expression could be deduced as a function of independent variables based on an empirical description or an assumed mechanism. At last, the unknown parameters in the kinetic equation can be estimated by numerical fitting. This approach is commonly known as “tail pipe end” or “catalyst effluent” analysis (Morgan et al., 2016), which has been widely used in kinetic researches till today.
In practice, both differential and integral methods for characterizing reaction kinetics are applied in researches (Bartholomew and Farrauto, 2010). The differential method with relatively low catalyst load can produce ‘infinitesimal’ conversion of reactants and directly assume a constant reaction rate, which would assist in mechanism validation in a limited range. However, the low conversion of reactants requires highly accurate and stable measurement systems which become more challenging. The integral method uses a relatively high catalyst load and leads to more significant conversions of reactants, with the reaction rate varying within the bed. Therefore, the reaction rate could not be directly extracted from effluent data but needs the numerical integration of rate expressions with an assumption of ideal plug flow reactor (PFR). The basic PFR model neglects the radial gradients of physical quantities and axial back-mixing, and consequently the three-dimensional (3-D) tubular reactor can be simplified into a one-dimensional (1-D) model. Practically, the ideal PFR model may not always work, especially when the reaction is highly endothermic or exothermic, because the non-uniform distribution of temperature and species concentration could be dominant in such systems, which has been indicated in previous works (Horn et al., 2007, Schuurman, 2008). Consequently, these non-ideal characteristics could lead to inaccurate predictions of kinetic parameters with the assumption of ideal flow.
Although it is challenging to understand the real intra-reactor state, the ideal models could be rationalized via proper experimental practices. Dautzenberg (1989) formulated “Ten Commandments for Testing Catalysts” and elucidated how to minimize the non-ideal characteristics caused by transport limitations. However, these commandments are mostly based on the rule-of-thumb, and it is still extremely difficult to quantitively reveal the impacts of fluidic effects on the kinetic parameter estimation. Pfefferle (1995) suggested that this integral type of global kinetic model may fail when the reaction heat is unaffordable for the poor bed conductivity. To understand such “black box” deviating from ideal model, it is also recommended to resolve the spatial profiles of reaction and transport with computational fluid dynamics (CFD) (Korup et al., 2013). Wehinger et al. (2014) studied the influence of temperature distribution on the estimation of kinetic parameters for oxidative coupling of methane in a typical fixed-bed reactor, using two CFD models coupled with an experimentally measured 1-D temperature profile and a 3-D heat-transfer models, respectively. It was found that the modeling results with predefined 1-D temperature profile could agree with the data from previous experiments and numerical regressions (Stansch et al., 1997), while the 3-D heat-transfer model predicts erroneously, which indicates that such exothermic reaction kinetics based on the 1-D ideal flow assumption could be potentially error-causing.
CFD tools can provide detailed information in the flow domain and are more flexible for various scales of interest in comparison with experiments. Generally, CFD models for packed bed reactor can be classified into two categories: pseudo-heterogeneous model (or porous media model) and spatially resolved model (or particle-resolved model). The pseudo-heterogeneous model applies in the reactor of a large diameter ratio of tube to particle (N = D/dp), in which the local effects of individual particles are considered negligible. The packed bed is averaged to be a homogeneous monolith and its momentum resistance is represented by additional source terms in momentum equations of the fluid (Janardhanan and Deutschmann, 2011). Accordingly, the calculation of heat and mass transport is based on the homogeneous distribution of porosity. This pseudo-heterogeneous model has been developed for fluid dynamic research in solid porous media (Edouard et al., 2008) and extended to reactor modeling coupled with appropriate reaction kinetics ranging from laboratory scale to commercial scale. Based on conventional catalytic convertors, several CFD works have been conducted with porous media model to optimize the reactor structures and operating conditions for oxidative coupling (Gao et al., 2011), Sabatier reaction (Hou et al., 2016), exhaust reforming (Zhang et al., 2018) and catalytic combustion (Yang et al., 2020). For the catalytic washcoat in microchannel reactors, the reacting flow in porous structure can also be modeled in porous media CFD with resistance defined by empirical law (Cao et al., 2016, Mladenov et al., 2010). The porous media model also functions as a powerful tool in taking insights into inner flow and verifying designing scheme of industrial reactors (Kuncharam and Dixon, 2020, Wang et al., 2018). In the latter category, the particle-resolved model can take the geometry of particles into consideration within the packed bed (Dixon and Nijemeisland, 2001), which has been applied into the modeling of reactors of small N (Behnam et al., 2010, Dixon, 2017, Dixon et al., 2012, Wehinger et al., 2016) with intraparticle transport and reactions considered (Partopour and Dixon, 2016, Wehinger et al., 2017). This spatially resolved model could provide a deeper understanding of the physical system but computationally expensive with extremely large number of body-fitted spatial cells. In contrast, pseudo-heterogeneous model has an advantage of efficiency in computation due to its averaging method. In kinetic experiments, large tube-to-particle diameter ratio (N) is usually preferred. Therefore, the porous media model can be more suitable for the analysis of chemical reactions which could be affected by the non-uniform distribution of physical field and the properties of catalyst bed.
This paper describes the influence of non-ideal distribution of physical fields, e.g. temperature, velocity and species concentration, on the kinetic experiment for the strongly endothermic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reaction which has attracted extensive attentions due to the technical and economic advantage in the production of propylene. CFD analysis of PDH reaction over Pt-Sn/Al2O3 was conducted based on the pseudo-heterogeneous method, in which the computational settings are extracted from the experimental research (Li et al. 2011). The propane conversion results have been compared among experiments, 1-D PFR and 3-D porous media models to verify the discrepancy between ideal and real models. The distributions of physical fields, including temperature, species concentration, velocity and heat duty, were analyzed in details to understand the non-ideal characteristics. Moreover, the influence of thermal conductivity and reaction intensity, which are further interpreted as the bed packing scheme, on the temperature profile has been further proposed and discussed.
2. CFD modeling
2.1. Physical model and meshing
The geometry model was built based on the inner packing structure of a tubular micro packed-bed reactor according to Li’s work (Li et al., 2011). The reactor was a stainless tube with an inner diameter of 6 mm, and the heat was supplied from the outer wall by a resistance heating jacket. Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst particles for PDH reaction were packed inside the tube, with two sections of silica sands shielding at the top and bottom ends, which were meant to uniformize the flow distribution and reduce the temperature gradients. The mass ratio of diluent silica to catalyst particles was approximately 4. As schematically shown in Fig. 1, a 3-D porous media model with an affordable computational load was applied to simulate the PDH reacting flow in the tubular reactor, and the extracted flow domain had a length of 34 mm, with one catalytic zone, two inert zones and two hollow zones of 4, 5, 10 mm, respectively. The premixed C3H8/C3H6/H2/Ar gas passed through the packed beds from the bottom to the top. It should be noted that similar results accurate enough to estimate the non-ideal characteristics of the reactor for kinetic research can be obtained both in a 3-D porous media model and a 2-D pseudo-homogenous model.
Download : Download high-res image (135KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Schematic diagrams of the (a) micro packed-bed reactor, (b) three-section model of packed bed and (c) details on local mesh refinement.
The total computational domain was discretized with structured meshes to ensure the computational accuracy, and the grid size independence has been validated as shown in Section 3.1. In addition, the meshes in the vicinity of the boundary between different solid phases have been refined (see Fig. 1b and c), adding the total number of cells up to 141 900. According to the experiment, detailed parameters in respect to the CFD model are listed in Table 1.
Table 1. Parameter settings of the PDH micro packed-bed reactor in CFD model.
Empty Cell
Symbol Value*
Particle diameter dp (mm) 0.15(cat), 0.3(int)
Inner tube diameter D (mm) 6.0
Bed porosity ε (-) 0.75(cat), 0.4(int)
Specific heat capacity cp (J·kg−1·K−1) 1150(cat), 800(int)
Thermal conductivity of solid bed (averaged) λ (W·m−1·K−1) 0.14(cat), 1.21∼1.44(int)#
Catalyst loading mcat (mg) 100
Mass dilution ratio Rdilu (-) 1:4
Gas flow rate (base) Vg (mL·min−1) 80
*
Cat-catalytic bed, int-inert bed.
#
Slightly temperature-dependent, elucidated in subsection 2.4.1.
2.2. Governing equations
According to the physical conditions, several hypotheses were proposed to simplify the governing equations. In the situation of low Mach number (<0.3), the fluid phase is assumed to satisfy the ideal gas law. Due to the large diameter ratio (N = 40), it can be assumed that the particles are packed uniformly in the tube and the bed porosity is homogeneous. The gas flow through the packed bed is considered as laminar flow due to low Reynolds number (<10) with the characteristic length of particle diameter. The reacting flow is modeled in a steady state, and the temperature of heating jacket is assumed to be constant.
The conservation equations of total mass, momentum, energy and mass of species could be numerically solved to obtain detailed velocity, pressure, temperature and species concentration profiles in the flow domain.
The gas phase mass continuity equation is expressed as:
(1)
where
is the mass density of gas mixture,
are the Cartesian coordinates and
are the velocity components.
The gas phase momentum equation is formulated as:
(2)
where
is the static pressure,
is the stress tensor, and
refer to the components of the gravitational body force. In addition,
is external source term of momentum, which is determined by the interaction between the gas and porous media here. The stress tensor is given by:
(3)
where
is the mixture viscosity, and the second term on the right-hand side is the effect of volume dilation.
The gas phase species conservation equation is expressed as:
(4)
with
the mass fraction of specie
in the gas mixture.
is the net production rate of specie
by reactions, and
, the diffusion mass flux components are given by:
(5)
where
is the effective diffusion coefficient of specie
in the mixture, and
is the effective thermal diffusion coefficient.
is the gas temperature and
is the molar fraction of species
in the mixture.
The gas phase energy equation is formulated as:
(6)
where
is the mixture specific enthalpy and
is the external heat source. In multicomponent mixtures, diffusive heat flux
is significant due to heat conduction and mass diffusion:
(7)
Here,
is the thermal conductivity of the gas mixture.
In this study, the heat transfer between the gas and solid phase is considered. Therefore, for the solid phase, the energy equation is taken into consideration, and it is established separately because a temperature difference may exist between gas and solid phases:
(8)
where
and
are the thermal conductivity and the temperature of the solid phase.
is the heat source term and results from the interphase heat transfer:
(9)
where
is the gas–solid heat transfer coefficient.
In the packed region, the geometric shape of solid phase is not considered explicitly and the physical gas velocity
can be derived from the above-mentioned superficial velocity
and the local porosity
:
(10)
As a source term of the momentum equation, the empirical Ergun’s equation (Ergun, 1952) is exerted to calculate the pressure drop resulting from viscous and inertial resistances, which reads:
(11)
2.3. Reaction and diffusion models
The propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process consists of a complex heterogeneous reacting system, including dehydrogenation, cracking and coke formation. Great efforts have been made in figuring out the reaction pathway and deriving the kinetic expression in previous works (Gómez-Quero et al., 2013, Larsson et al., 1998, Sahebdelfar et al., 2012, Zha et al., 2018). In this work, Li’s experimental results with lumped kinetic equations (Li et al., 2011) was applied into the CFD model to investigate the potential non-ideal characteristics within the reactor. Experimentally, the coke forms in a very low rate, and in industrial practice, the catalysts can last for a few days before regeneration (Chen et al., 2020, Sattler et al., 2014). Therefore, the coking kinetics was considered negligible in our steady-state model, and two main reactions are embedded.
Propane dehydrogenation:
(12)
Propane cracking:
(13)
It is assumed that both propane and hydrogen are adsorbed on active sites of the Pt-based catalyst, and the dehydrogenation is to proceed step by step. Data fitting results in Li’s work suggest that CH bond cleavage of propane is the rate-determining step and the surface coverage of C3H7 can be neglected. The dehydrogenation rate can be given with Langmuir-Hinshelwood approach as:
(14)
where the thermodynamic equilibrium constant
is given by:
(15)
The cracking rate is assumed to be first order with respect to propane:
(16)
According to Li’s fitting, the reaction constants (
,
,
,
) are expressed as the reparametrized form of Arrhenius equations as follows and a reference temperature Tm (838 K) is employed. The kinetic parameters are given in Table 2.
(17)
(18)
Table 2. Parameters for the kinetic model.
Parameters k0 or K0 Ea or
H
k1 1.4 × 10-3 (mmol·s−1·g−1·kPa−1) 44.7 (kJ·mol−1)
k2 1.0 × 10-5 (mmol·s−1·g−1·kPa−1) 104.8 (kJ·mol−1)
K1 8.0 × 10-2 (kPa−1) 94.3 (kJ·mol−1)
K2 1.0 × 10-2 (kPa−1) 238.9 (kJ·mol−1)
In this study, the catalyst bed is assumed to have a homogeneous distribution of porosity. The mass transfer between the gas and solid phase is considered negligible, since the Mears criterion for external diffusion and Weisz-Prater criterion for internal diffusion are considered satisfied in the kinetic experiments (Li et al., 2011). However, the diffusion within the gas phase should still be considered. A modified Chapman-Enskog formula (Poling et al., 2001) is used in the CFD code to compute the molecular bulk diffusion coefficient of gas components in mixture under the guidance of the kinetic theory. With regard to the molecular diffusion process influenced by the solid distribution in porous media, i.e., the void fraction
and the tortuosity
, the effective diffusion coefficient can be generally estimated by (Tartakovsky and Dentz, 2019):
(19)
where
represents the effective diffusion coefficient in porous media and
represents the molecular bulk diffusion coefficient. Empirical modifications are usually conducted to improve the accuracy of the model with the consideration of the particle properties (e.g. pore structure) (Tartakovsky and Dentz, 2019). However, as the packed bed has been generalized into a homogeneous porous media, the effective diffusion coefficient is estimated by Equation (19) as an approximation. Since the influence of the diffusion on the reaction is negligible as discussed above,
within the zones of porous media is set to 0.28
, which assumes the packed bed has the macroscopic porosity of 0.4 without considering particle properties and the tortuosity (
) of 1.42 (Lanfrey et al., 2010).
In catalytic porous media, the conversion rate can be calculated by introducing a parameter, surface-to-volume ratio
. The total active surface area, on which the reactions take place in each cell, can be calculated by multiplying the volume of the cell by the surface-to-volume ratio
and the porosity
. Since the parameter
covers different scales in macro- and micropores, it can be approximated by modeling approaches. Specifically, the
value in model setting can be estimated by fitting the experiment results. Slight differences in fitted
values may exist with various temperatures in experiments, so the arithmetic averaging is applied to fix the
value.
2.4. Computational setup
2.4.1. Boundary and initial conditions
In the gas phase, the specific heat capacity of species was specified with a piecewise polynomial fitting method. As for the mixture, the specific heat capacity was obtained by the mixing law. Other properties, i.e., thermal conductivity and viscosity were calculated as a mass-fraction-weighted average of all species. Detailed data for the fitting of these physical quantities was extracted from NIST Chemistry WebBook database (NIST, 2018).
In this study, the two-temperature model (pseudo-heterogenous model) is employed to describe the thermal conductivity of the packed zone, which calculate the temperature of the solid and gas separately (Stegehake et al., 2019). The thermal conductivity of the porous solid phase should be modified, since the contacts between particles could lead to a much lower thermal conductivity than that of a dense solid phase. Hence, the overall thermal conductivity of porous solid phase is estimated based on the empirical correlation, which gives a
approximately 10 times larger than
for the inert bed of solid particles (Neubronner et al., 2010), with the temperature-fitted thermal conductivity
W·m−1·K−1. As a result, the thermal conductivity of the inert bed is in the range of 1.21 ∼ 1.44 W·m−1·K−1. As for the porous Alumina-based catalyst bed, the thermal conductivity is 0.14 W·m−1·K−1, according to the experiments (Mischke and Smith, 1962). The heat transfer coefficient
between gas and solid phase could be calculated by the non-dimensional correlation of heat transfer factor
as follows:
(20)
where
is found to be an one-variable function of Re in a wide range as (Sen Gupta and Thodos, 1963):
(21)
The final value of
are 356 and 350 W∙m−2∙K−1 for catalytic and inert zones, respectively.
For boundary conditions, the inlet is set as velocity-inlet, and the outlet as pressure-outlet. The inlet temperature of the gas mixture was 473 K and the gauge pressure at the outlet was 0 Pa, according to the usual experimental setup. The tube wall was assumed to be non-slip. The total heat-supply through the tube wall
via convection and thermal radiation was calculated as:
(22)
where
is the external convective heat transfer coefficient, 10 W∙m−2∙K−1 (Yang et al., 2020).
is the temperature of external heat sources, including the jacket and the interstitial gas, and
is the wall temperature.
is the surface emissivity with a value of 0.85 for stainless iron and
denotes the Stefan-Boltzmann constant,
W·m−2·K−4. In consideration of the wall effects in the packed bed, i.e., the temperature difference between the wall and the bed, previous research suggests that the heat transfer between the wall and the bed is primarily via the gas phase, due to larger porosity and limited contact between particles and the wall (Stegehake et al., 2019).
2.4.2. Solution methods
The governing equations were solved in the commercial CFD code ANSYS-Fluent under steady state. The convergence of computation took approximately 1000 iterations and was guaranteed based upon residuals of all variables less than 10-6. The pressure-based segregated solver was used, with the SIMPLEC scheme for pressure–velocity coupling. All results presented in this work were computed with the second-order upwind interpolation for the convection terms and all diffusion terms used second-order discretization. Under-relaxation factors were generally reduced from the default settings to improve stability of the iterations, usually from 0.7 to 0.5 for pressure, and from 1 to 0.9 for other scalars.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Model verification and validation
For model verification, grid independence tests are carried out with various grid sizes, including 0.2, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7 and 1.0 mm. As is shown in Fig. 2, the axial velocity profiles within the reactor tube and the radial velocity profile at the tube outlet are investigated to determine the appropriate grid size, which is computed under base conditions with the gas flow of 80 mL/min and the external temperature at 873 K. Generally, the velocity profiles become consistent when the grid size is smaller than 0.3 mm. In Fig. 2a, it is also illustrated that velocity steps pop up at the boundary between flow domains of different void fraction. To save the total computational time and minimize the discretization errors at the same time, the optimized grid size of 0.3 mm is used in the computational domain. Moreover, the boundary mesh is refined to 0.05 mm with a growing rate of 1.2 to capture the detailed flow characteristics.
Download : Download high-res image (219KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. (a) Axial velocity profiles across the center and (b) radial velocity profiles at the outlet with different grid sizes under an inlet gas flow of 80 mL/min.
In a heterogeneous PDH system, the total reaction rates are not only determined by the intrinsic activity of catalysts, but also limited by the loading density of the active components. In the porous media model, as discussed in the previous section, the surface-to-volume ratio
represents the area of catalytically active surface in each CFD cell, which makes it difficult to be determined a priori.
The
value could be estimated by fitting the CFD model to a range of experimental data. The experimental temperature points are 803 K, 823 K and 873 K, corresponding to the outlet propane conversions of 0.062, 0.110 and 0.202. It is found that the three points in experiments could not be fully described by only one
value. The fitted
values at 803 K, 823 K and 873 K are
m−1,
m−1 and
m−1, respectively. The value of
generally agrees with the specific surface area of alumina supports in experiments. The median
of
m−1 was used in our CFD model within the temperature range from 803 K to 873 K.
The kinetic system was also reproduced according to Li’s work (Li et al., 2011) with 1-D isothermal modeling, which is based on the kinetic equations derived from experiments. The propane conversion results in 3-D modeling are compared against the experimental and 1-D modeling data from Li’s work, which is intended to verify whether the distribution of physical fields satisfies the ideal PFR model and isothermal hypothesis.
As illustrated in Fig. 3, reacting conditions, including reacting temperature, propane feed fraction and propylene feed fraction have remarkable impacts on the outlet conversion, while feed hydrogen fraction does not seem to be a critical impactor, which is implied in the LHHW expression of the dehydrogenation kinetics. Moreover, the conversions in the 1-D model have a better consistence with experiments, because the kinetics are obtained from the assumption of ideal PFR model. Generally, the 3-D model also gives a similar trend as the experimental and 1-D model data. However, there is still a noticeable discrepancy between the 3-D modeling and the experiments, especially when the reacting temperature acts as an independent variable in Fig. 4a. In other words, when the kinetic parameters derived from 1-D PFR model are used in 3-D porous media model, the results could be different from the ideal assumption. These results indicate that non-ideal characteristics may exist even in this microscale PDH reacting system, which could not be simply treated as a plug flow integral reactor. Moreover, when the conversion differences between experiments and CFD modeling are compared under the influence of temperature, feed propane fraction, feed propylene fraction and feed hydrogen fraction, it is found that the temperature could exert a significant influence on the operational characteristics of such laboratory scale reactors.
Download : Download high-res image (423KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Propane conversion under various (a) reacting temperature, (b) feed propane fraction, (c) feed propylene fraction, (d) feed hydrogen fraction, compared among experiments, 1-D PFR model, and 3-D porous media model.
Download : Download high-res image (547KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Contours of temperature, axial velocity, species mass fraction and reaction heat under GHSV= (a) 2.2, (b) 4.4, (c) 8.9, (d) 17.7, (e) 33.0, (f) 57.7 h−1.
3.2. Intra-reactor field analysis
In the following study, the internal field is resolved by a series of contour diagrams of different space velocities (SV). The external temperature is fixed at 873 K, and the feed gas is composed of 35 % C3H8 balanced by Ar. Based on a consistent solid loading, the inlet velocity is set as 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 7 and 13 cm·s−1, which correspond to the gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) of 2.2, 4.4, 8.9, 17.7, 33.0 and 57.7 h−1, respectively. Contours of axial velocity, C3H8 mass fraction, reaction heat, temperature and Ar mass fraction are deliberately jointed in Fig. 4 to give a better illustration of relationships All contours are drawn according to the upward flow direction.
As is shown in Fig. 4a, under the condition of low space velocity, the axial velocity conforms to a parabolic pattern in hollow zones near the inlet and the outlet. The gas flows at a higher speed in the central zone of the tube, while the speed is relatively low at the vicinity of the wall and comes to zero at the wall due to the no-slip boundary condition. When the gas flows into the inert zone, the gas velocity popped up with negligible transition between hollow and inert zones, because the resistance effects are directly added to the momentum equation with clear borders.
In Fig. 4a, it can be found that the mass fraction of C3H8 drops dramatically even in front of the catalytic zone in the low GHSV case (2.2 h−1). In Fig. 5, the molar fraction of all gas species are plotted along the main part of symmetric axis, and it is obvious that the upstream diffusion plays an important role in the low GHSV case. In contrast, the intensive change of reactant fraction within the catalytic zone seems more reasonable in the high GHSV case (33.3 h−1 and 57.7 h−1). Under low space velocity, the backward shift of propane concentration variation can be attributed to the back-mixing effect. In such case, longer residence time leads to higher propane conversion, which may rise up the products concentration in the catalytic zone. As a result, the concentrated C3H6 and H2 will diffuse back to the inert zone, and the back-mixing phenomenon shows up if the gas velocity could not counteract the diffusion.
Download : Download high-res image (208KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Molar fractions of all gas components along the symmetric axis of the microreactor under GHSV= (a) 2.2, (b) 33.3 h−1.
The temperature contours on Fig. 4b, c, d and e slices have a similar inlet ‘hollow cone’, which demonstrates the heating process of cool feed gas. This development zone of temperature is mainly determined by the temperature difference between the feed gas and the hot wall, as well as by the thermal conductivity and the gas velocity. From Fig. 4b, it can be concluded that under low space velocity, the heat transfer rate could easily satisfy the preheating demand of the feed gas, so the cone zone of temperature is relatively short. However, when the inlet velocity increases, a larger amount of heat has to be supplied via tube wall conduction and radiation with more feed mass. As a result, longer development zone is needed to reach the reacting temperature due to the limited heat transfer efficiency. In Fig. 4d and e, the cone zones inevitably extend to the inert shield, whereas, the cone patterns are soon been smoothed at the solid boundary. That is one of the functions of inert silica packing, to prepare the temperature profile for uniformly distributed reaction rates.
The reaction heat distribution in the catalyst section was also investigated in Fig. 4b, c and d. Obviously, with the space velocity increasing, the absolute value of reaction heat will increase in response, which can be attributed to the net amount of converted propane. Accordingly, on the left frame, the temperature in the reacting zones experiences a subtle drop. It is indicated that in the cases of high GHSV, the temperature of the catalytic zone can be vulnerable to the endothermic nature of the PDH reaction. The reaction heat is not simply shaped in a cone-like pattern, but in a petaloid shape. This phenomenon could be possibly caused by mutual influence of the surrounding heat supply and the reaction heat demand.
The mass fraction of the inert component argon was also drawn on the right frame in Fig. 4e. As can be seen, the relative fluctuation of Ar concentration is not significant, so the influence from thermal diffusion can be neglected. Beyond that, the mass fraction contour of an inert component can also reflect the local temperature gradient.
3.3. Kinetic regime analysis
Traditionally, the kinetic experiments should be conducted within the kinetics-controlled regime, in other words, under the control of intrinsic reaction. Therefore, it is of great significance to figure out the feasible space velocity to reflect the intrinsic activity of catalysts without the influence of transport phenomena. In the present work, the influence of the gas velocity on the overall propane conversion is examined. It also should be noted that if the thermodynamic balance becomes an influencing factor for the kinetic analysis, then the propane conversion should be kept relatively low, especially for differential reactors.
Fig. 6 shows the propane conversions along the central axis in the flow direction under different inlet velocities, which were computed with a predefined external temperature of 873 K. The conversion curve of GHSV = 33.3 h−1, which is marked by black solid line, represents the base condition in Li’s work (Li et al., 2011). It is illustrated that with the increase of space velocity, the propane conversion at the outlet shows a decline, which could be attributed to the reduced residence time. In the cases of high space velocity, the propane is mainly converted in the ‘pink’ catalytic zone, i.e., the section between y = 15 mm and y = 19 mm. However, for low GHSV cases, the conversion rises even before entering the catalytic zone, which corresponds to the above-mentioned back-mixing effect. If the kinetic experiments are conducted under such conditions, the unusual change of reactant concentration in the preheating zone will certainly interfere the determination of kinetic parameters. With the feed propane diluted by the back flow, the driving force of PDH reaction can be seriously weakened, and consequently the deeper conversion will soon be restrained by thermodynamics. In Fig. 6, it could be found that the low GHSV leads to a curvy change of the propane conversion which is significantly affected by the thermodynamics, while in the enlarged view of low-conversion zone, the higher GHSV makes conversion curve close to a straight line, approaching a differential reactor model.
Download : Download high-res image (171KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Propane conversion along the axial direction of the PDH micro packed-bed reactor under different space velocities.
The relationship between propane conversion and inlet velocity (or space velocity) is further studied. To evaluate the proceeding extent of reactions within the catalyst bed and the control of thermodynamics and kinetics, the propane conversion is examined at the axial positions of y = 17 mm and y = 19 mm, which are the half depth and tail end of the catalyst bed, respectively. In Fig. 7, the propane conversions at these two axial positions are illustrated in comparison with the equilibrium conversion at 873 K. It is demonstrated that under low space velocity, the propane will be mainly converted in the front of the catalytic zone, and the total conversion can be relatively close to the upper limit of thermodynamics. By contrast, there can be an almost similar amount of net propane conversion in two halves of the catalytic zone under high space velocity (e.g., >7.14 cm·s−1 or 33.0 h−1), which mainly results from the negligible backward reaction rate and unchanged forward driving force. When the conversion drop shows a remarkable relationship with the increase of space velocity, it can be inferred that the reacting flow comes into a kinetic regime. The modeling results for kinetic analysis is in broad agreement with Li’s experimental work, and the kinetics-controlled regime are concretized to be relatively low conversion and approximately linear conversion curve.
Download : Download high-res image (93KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Propane conversion at the half depth in bed (y = 17 mm) and at the end of bed (y = 19 mm) with a range of inlet velocities, and the thermodynamic equilibrium conversion (at 873 K).
3.4. Temperature gradient analysis
In kinetic experiments, it is a common practice to obtain the axial temperature profile by thermometry before the 1-D integral computation is conducted. Usually, the catalytic bed can be considered as isothermal in the cases of microscale reactors. However, due to endothermic nature of PDH reaction and the heat transfer condition in the bed, the temperature field can distribute non-uniformly, as illustrated in Fig. 4. If the measured temperature could not represent the whole reacting domain (higher or lower), the 1-D data fitting based on the ideal assumption may lead to over- or under-estimation of kinetic parameters. Consequently, with the estimated parameters (from 1-D data) applied into the 3-D model, the discrepancy between experiments and modeling may arise.
With the space velocity adjusted to ensure a wide range of operational variables, the propane conversion within the catalytic bed will certainly be influenced. Therefore, the variation of space velocity will change the heat demand of endothermic PDH reaction and lead to temperature gradients in the bed. Fig. 8 shows the temperature profiles along the central axis in the flow direction under the GHSV of 2.2, 4.4, 8.9, 17.7, 33.0, 44.7 and 57.7 h−1 at the external temperature of 873 K. It is illustrated that a lower gas velocity (e.g., GHSV = 2.2 h−1) leads to a sharp increase of the temperature to the target temperature in the preheating zone ranging from y = 0 mm to y = 15 mm, which is composed of hollow and inert zones. The temperature increase in the preheating zone becomes slower when the gas velocity is high (e.g., GHSV = 33.0 h−1). In addition, the temperature within the catalytic zone also experiences certain temperature gradients, which implies limited heat transfer conditions for the strongly endothermic reaction.
Download : Download high-res image (190KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Temperature profiles along the axial direction of the PDH micro packed-bed reactor under different space velocities.
As for the temperature gradient in the catalytic bed, it can be illustrated by the global temperature range, defined as the difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures. Therefore, as shown in Fig. 9, maximum and the minimum temperatures are recorded in modeling cases with various inlet velocities, as well as the temperature of the measuring point which is located at the center of the bed. From the temperature curves in Fig. 10, the minimum temperature almost coincides with that of the measuring point, which indicates that the measured location can be the coolest in the catalytic bed. In addition, the global range of temperature enlarges with the increase of inlet velocity, even up to 58 K within the kinetic regime. As is shown in Fig. 4, the temperature is usually lower in the middle and higher at the boundaries. Accordingly, to obtain a homogeneous temperature field, the lower space velocity is preferred, which could relatively reduce the temperature difference in the reactor. However, this approach to realize the ideal distribution conflicts with the demand of high gas velocity for the kinetic regime.
Download : Download high-res image (99KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. The maximum, the minimum and the thermocouple-measured temperatures within the catalytic bed of the PDH micro packed-bed reactor, with certain temperature ranges illustrated.
Download : Download high-res image (149KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. The sensitivity analysis of the temperature range with variables of space velocity, external temperature, feed propane fraction and preheating temperature.
Apart from the impact of space velocity, other factors, such as the external temperature, the feed propane fraction and the inlet preheating temperature, could have impacts on the global temperature range within the catalytic zone. In Fig. 10, the sensitivity analysis of these variables is illustrated to investigate their specific contributions to the temperature nonuniformity. It is indicated that the temperature range enlarges with the increase of space velocity, external temperature and feed concentration, but may shrink when the preheating temperature increases. Accordingly, to eliminate the temperature difference, it would be beneficial to reduce the inlet velocity, the external temperature and the propane partial pressure, or raise the feed temperature in the preheater before the reactor inlet. In addition, the external temperature can be regarded as a major influencing factor among the four, which means that the reduction of the external temperature can effectively suppress the temperature nonuniformity within the bed. However, this could also reduce the propane conversion due to lower reaction rate.
3.5. Influence of bed properties and packing scheme
Generally, to eliminate the severe temperature inhomogeneity in the catalytic zone, there are two factors to be considered: the reaction heat duty and the thermal conductivity. The former can be directly adjusted by decreasing the reaction rate, corresponding to the reduction of active loads in the catalytic bed, while the later way can be fulfilled by enhancing the bed conductivity with materials or specific structures. To quantify the impacts of bed conductivity and catalyst activity on the temperature field, the relevant sensitivity analyses were conducted.
It is shown in Fig. 11a that with a constant
value, which means the volume density of active components is fixed, the global temperature range in the catalytic bed will drop rapidly with the increase of thermal conductivity and then levels off gradually. The temperature inhomogeneity is strongly relevant with the bed conductivity in the range from 0.025 to 1 W·m−1·K−1. The decrease of temperature range gradually becomes smaller especially when the bed conductivity is larger than 3 W·m−1·K−1. This is possibly because other factors, such as gas velocity and the heat transfer coefficient between the wall and the bed, become dominant, when the thermal conductivity is high enough. The propane conversion at the outlet increases correspondingly with the increase of thermal conductivity of the bed. It is noted that in cases of low thermal conductivity, less feed propane will be converted in the catalytic bed but severe temperature nonuniformity still exists.
Download : Download high-res image (258KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Temperature range and propane conversion within the catalyst bed under the variable of (a) conductivity and (b)
value of the catalyst bed.
Similarly, the dependence of temperature range on the
value, i.e., the volume density of active components in the packed bed, has been investigated with a constant bed conductivity of 0.316 W·m−1·K−1. As discussed in Section 3.1, the value of
represents the loading of active components. It is illustrated in Fig. 11b that in the kinetics-controlled regime of dehydrogenation reaction (propane conversion less than 0.25), the temperature range and the conversion both enlarge with a larger
. With the material and structure of the catalyst bed determined, i.e., the bed conductivity, it can be inferred that remarkable temperature nonuniformity varies with the loading of active components.
Generally, the load of active components and the material of catalyst support are both predetermined in experimental practice. Hence, other measures without changing catalyst properties are expected to improve the bed conductivity and the reaction intensity. In previous experimental and modeling researches, Bianchi et al., 2006, Hwang and Smith, 2004 have found that with a catalyst bed diluted by SiO2, SiC or α-Al2O3, the temperature profiles in the packed bed could be effectively optimized, which promises a better conversion and selectivity of target reactions. Considering the two factors above, it can be understood that when the porous catalyst is evenly diluted, the volumetric reaction rate will certainly decrease, and in the meanwhile, the heat transfer in the monolithic bed could be enhanced due to the better heat conductivity of inert sands. Taking SiO2 as an example, the thermal conductivity of the silica sands (e.g., at the order of 1.5 W·m−1·K−1) is relatively higher than that of the porous catalytic particle (e.g., at the order of 0.1 W·m−1·K−1) (see subsection 2.4.1). This scheme of mixing the catalyst and silica sands up is further examined in this study.
As illustrated in Fig. 12, to understand the difference between a sectionalized packing reactor and a mixed packing reactor, the above reactor model was modified based on the same amount of active and inert materials. In these two configurations, the same catalyst amount means the same catalytically active surface area, i.e., the equivalent products of bed volume (length), bed porosity and
. Then, the
for the mixed packing scheme can be calculated as:
(23)
Download : Download high-res image (96KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. Schematic diagram of the sectionalized packing and mixed packing with the same catalyst dilution ratio of 4 by silica sands.
To avoid the volume change caused by mixing process, the diameters of catalyst and silica sands were both set as 0.15 mm, and accordingly the parameters of flow resistance and interphase heat transfer were all recalculated with the above-used empirical formulas. In the mixed packing scheme, the average porosity is 0.5, and the surface-to-volume ratio is
m−1, considering the influence of inert solid particles on the catalytic bed. As a first approximation, the thermal conductivity of the mixed solid phase was estimated by volume-fraction-weighted average, which gives
W·m−1·K−1.
The sectionalized and mixed packing schemes are modelled under the same external heating conditions with the temperature of 873 K for the external heating source. Fig. 13 shows the propane conversion profiles along the axial direction with two packing configurations and various space velocities. With the same amount of catalyst and silica sands loaded, the scheme of mixed packing has a relatively higher propane conversion. In the two enlarged views of conversions at the front end of the catalyst bed, it is indicated that the back-mixing effects are relatively suppressed and the initial conversions are closer to zero in a mixed packing reactor, possibly due to the dispersion of reaction intensity. Additionally, the conversion profiles show a great similarity with the linear relationship, which can be an implication of kinetic control. The conversion profile analysis also corroborates the idea of replacing the sectionalized packing by a mixed one with less catalyst without pulling down the outlet conversion.
Download : Download high-res image (273KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. Propane conversion profiles along the axial direction of the sectionalized (sec.)/mixed (mix.)-packing PDH micro packed-bed reactor under low (17.7 h−1)/base (33.0 h−1)/high (57.7 h−1) GHSV.
The axial profiles of temperature and reaction rate are shown in Fig. 14a, while the radial profiles are shown in Fig. 14b, in which the fraction gradient is correlated to the reaction rate. The comparison between the temperature profiles of the two packing schemes illustrates that the mixing can significantly smooth the temperature distribution in the reacting zone. For instance, when the thermocouple is located at the central point of the packed bed in the axial direction, the measured temperature in the mixed packing scheme is between the maximum and the minimum temperature, while that of the sectionalized packing scheme is totally below the temperature range. With respect to the mathematical processing for kinetic parameter estimation, the reference temperature in the mixed packing can be more credible, and the estimation error can be partially eased by a better temperature uniformity. In addition, it can be seen that the mixed packing has an advantage that the conversion rate can be more uniformly distributed. Generally, the distributions of temperature and conversion rate in the mixed packing bed are relatively closer to the definition of an ideal 1-D PFR reactor model. This could potentially disperse the heating load in the mixed packing scheme. Beyond that, the alternative mixed packing scheme can also be a choice to balance the result accuracy and the feasibility in manual experiments.
Download : Download high-res image (325KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 14. Profiles of temperature and reaction rates along the central (a) axial and (b) radial direction, compared between sectionalized and mixed packing schemes.
4. Conclusion
In this paper, to reveal the influence of non-ideal characteristics caused by fluidic effects on the kinetic research, CFD analysis on highly endothermic PDH reaction in a tubular micro packed-bed reactor was conducted. The propane conversions obtained from 3-D modeling at various conditions have discrepancies from the reported experimental data and 1-D PFR regression. This results from the application of kinetic parameters fitted from 1-D ideal flow assumption to the 3-D model with inhomogeneous flow and temperature fields.
To apprehend the intra-reactor characteristics in detail, a group of contour slices under different space velocities is drawn to analyze the field information of the PDH reacting system. Then, the influence of space velocity is investigated to identify the transient range of kinetics-controlled regimes. It is found that a lower space velocity can lead to back-mixing due to diffusion but can be a preference to minimize the temperature range within the catalyst bed. On the other hand, the high space velocity can be beneficial to the kinetic environment, but may result in the inhomogeneous temperature field which deviates from the ideal assumption. The sensitivity of temperature distribution on reaction is systematically analyzed. In addition, with respect to the packed bed properties, a high thermal conductivity and low loading of catalysts can reduce the non-uniformity of temperature distribution. Therefore, a mixed packing scheme with lower reaction heat duty and higher thermal conductivity is proposed, which could effectively suppress the back-mixing effects and temperature gradients to improve the conditions for determining reaction kinetics.
In summary, the kinetic experiments of highly exothermic or endothermic reactions are significantly dependent on operating conditions and bed properties, and well-developed CFD tools could effectively assist in the design and validation of experimental schemes. Besides, with the development of massively parallel computation, particle-resolved models could become applicable in the modeling of kinetic experiments for particle-scale transport and reaction information.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgement
We acknowledge the National Key R&D Program of China (2021YFA1501302), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. U1862207, 22121004, 22122808), the Haihe Laboratory of Sustainable Chemical Transformations and the Program of Introducing Talents of Discipline to Universities (BP0618007) for financial support. This work is supported by the XPLORER PRIZE.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
