I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Selective Production of Aromatics by Catalytic Fast Pyrolysis of Furan with In Situ Dehydrogenation of Propane
Abstract
Catalytic fast pyrolysis (CFP) of furan was studied with the co-feeding of propane over ZSM-5, CrOx/Al2O3, and mixed catalysts with both ZSM-5 and CrOx/Al2O3 to combine the dehydrogenation of propane and CFP of furan in the presence of in situ generated propylene. With 15 vol % propane co-feeding, a slight increase in aromatic yield was observed over ZSM-5 catalyst. These enhancement was further improved by using mixed catalysts consisting of CrOx/Al2O3 and ZSM-5 with different weight ratios. Over the best mixed catalyst with CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratio of 2, a nearly 2-fold increase in the aromatic yield was obtained. The toluene selectivity was also increased from 37% to 50%. The increase in aromatic yield is directly dependent on the propane to total flow volume ratio. Moreover, the coke formation within ZSM-5 was also reduced, leading to a slower catalyst deactivation. From mechanistic studies, a two-step cascade reaction pathway was observed over the bifunctional mixed catalysts. It was proposed that propane dehydrogenates to propylene over CrOx/Al2O3. The propylene then reacts with furan within ZSM-5 catalyst to selectively form aromatics. This work demonstrates a simple and economical strategy to further improve the CFP technique.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:biomass catalytic fast pyrolysis aromatics co-feeding of propane in situ dehydrogenation CrOx/Al2O3
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Because of diminishing fossil fuel reserves and increasing environmental concerns, lignocellulosic biomass has attracted significant attention as an alternative carbon source to produce fuels and chemicals. (15) Catalytic fast pyrolysis (CFP), which directly converts biomass over solid catalysts in one integrated reactor, is a promising technique for the production of renewable aromatics such as benzene, toluene, and xylenes from lignocellulosic biomass. (68) In this process, lignocellulosic biomass is converted into pyrolysis gas at an intermediate temperature. The produced pyrolysis gas then diffuses within the micropores of zeolite catalysts where it undergoes various reactions to form final products. While numerous studies have been carried out to improve the efficiency of CFP technique, the fast deactivation of zeolite catalysts and the low yields to aromatics and olefins still remain as challenges of the CFP technique. (7,911) The fast catalyst deactivation is attributed to the accumulation of coke formed inside the micropores of the zeolite catalysts, which covers the active sites on the micropore surface. To overcome the issue, hierarchical zeolites with short diffusion lengths have been developed to improve the mass transport within zeolite catalysts so that the formation of coke within the micropores of zeolite catalysts can be reduced. (1214) Other challenges of CFP are the low yields to desired products (e.g., aromatics and olefins) and the lack of flexibility to tune the product selectivity. (15) Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts have been used to increase the aromatic yield because of their bifunctional nature. (16) In addition to developing new zeolite catalysts, higher aromatic yield can also be achieved by altering the chemistry involved in CFP. The DielsAlder reaction, which involves the addition of alkenes to conjugated dienes to form cyclohexene derivatives, has been proposed as an effective reaction pathway to produce aromatics. (17,18) On the basis of this hypothesis, Cheng and Huber studied the effect of propylene co-feeding on CFP of furan over ZSM-5 catalyst and reported an increase in the aromatic yields and higher selectivity to toluene. (19) The enhancement with the co-feeding of propylene was attributed to the higher H/C ratio in the feed and the DielsAlder cycloaddition between furan and propylene. While the co-feeding of propylene showed promising results, an inevitable drawback of this method is the use of light alkene, which is also a high-demand commodity chemical for producing polymers. Hence, it is desired to use alkane as the co-feeding source and integrate the dehydrogenation of alkane with CFP process. Recently, shale gas has become an increasingly important source of natural gas. Great opportunities have appeared for using shale gas as the co-feeding chemical to produce renewable chemicals from biomass. (20,21) While shale gas is mostly made up of methane (90%) and ethane (10%), the composition of propane can be as high as 5%, (22) which guarantees propane availability considering the total reserve of shale gas.
In this work, we studied CFP of furan with co-feeding of propane. The idea is to combine dehydrogenation of propane and CFP of furan in the presence of both dehydrogenation catalysts and zeolite catalysts. Improved aromatic yield, higher selectivity to toluene, less coke formation, and slower catalyst deactivation were achieved by using mixed catalysts consisting of CrOx/Al2O3 and ZSM-5. The effects of reaction parameters including catalyst composition and the propane to total flow volume ratio on the aromatic yield were studied. From mechanistic studies, a typical two-step cascade reaction pathway was observed over the bifunctional mixed catalysts. Propane first dehydrogenates to propylene over CrOx/Al2O3, which further reacts with furan within the micropores of ZSM-5 to form aromatics. The results observed in this work support a simple and economical method to improve the current CFP technique toward longer catalyst lifetime and higher aromatic production.
2. Experimental Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
Five different catalysts were prepared and studied in this work: CrOx/Al2O3 (10 wt % Cr) as the dehydrogenation catalyst, commercial ZSM-5 (Zeolyst CBV 3024E) as the CFP catalyst, and mixtures of these two phases as co-feeding catalysts. Three co-feeding catalysts with different CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratios (0.5, 1, and 2) were prepared, denoted as CrZSM_0.5, CrZSM_1, and CrZSM_2, respectively.
CrOx/Al2O3 (10 wt % Cr) was synthesized by incipient wetness impregnation of Cr precursor on γ-Al2O3. Cr(NO3)3·9H2O (0.4 g) was dissolved into 0.5 mL of deionized water. The solution was then added into 0.5 g of γ-Al2O3 dropwise with vigorous stirring. The product was dried overnight at 80 C and calcined at 500 C for 30 h. ZSM-5 zeolite was purchased from Zeolyst (CBV3024E). Three catalysts with different CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratios (0.5, 1, and 2) were prepared by mixing CrOx/Al2O3 with ZSM-5. Specifically, 100 mg of ZSM-5 was always used and CrOx/Al2O3 was weighed accordingly (50, 100, and 200 mg for weight ratio of 0.5, 1, and 2, respectively). Thereafter, two phases were placed into a mortar and ground for 20 min for a uniform mixture.
2.2. Catalyst Characterization
Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded on Xpert Powder (PANalytical) diffractometer system equipped with a Cu Kα radiation (operation at 40 kV, 30 mA, λ = 0.15418 nm) and a Ni filter. The measurement was carried out from a 2θ range of 10 to 70 with a scanning step size of 0.02.
2.3. CFP Reaction
CFP reactions were carried out in a continuous flow quartz fixed-bed reactor placed into a proportional integral derivative (PID) controlled furnace. Prior to reaction, the catalyst bed was heated to the reaction temperature and equilibrated for 30 min under He flow (100 sccm). After calcination, the He stream was switched to bypass the reactor. Furan was then fed into He carrier flow using a syringe pump (Fisher KDS100) and allowed to equilibrate for 30 min. For co-feeding reactions, the furan/He flow was mixed with co-feeding stream using a three-way tee. After 30 min bypass, the feed stream was switched into the reactor, and after 1 min, an online gas chromatograph (GC) was started. The products were characterized using an online Agilent 7890A GC coupled with FID reactor. A plot-Q GC column was used to separate light olefins from alkanes. The standard CFP reaction conditions are as follows: temperature, 550 C; total flow, 330 sccm; catalyst load, 80 mg for ZSM-5; 100 mg for CrOx/Al2O3; 120, 150, and 210 mg for mixed catalysts with CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 ratio of 0.5, 1, and 2, respectively. The conversion, yield, and selectivity were calculated as described in the Supporting Information.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Synthesized CrOx/Al2O3 sample was characterized using X-ray diffraction (XRD) technique and compared to γ-Al2O3. The XRD patterns are shown in Figure 1. γ-Al2O3 shows typical XRD peaks with no indication of impurities. No Cr2O3 peak was observed for the CrOx/Al2O3 sample, suggesting that CrOx is well dispersed on the γ-Al2O3 support.
Figure 1
Figure 1. XRD patterns of γ-Al2O3 and CrOx/Al2O3 (10 wt % Cr).
To find optimum reaction conditions, propane dehydrogenation reactions over CrOx/Al2O3 were first carried out at different temperatures ranging from 450 to 600 C. As shown in Table S1, CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst shows low activity (<2%) when the temperature is lower than 550 C and high cracking product formation (i.e., methane and ethylene) at 600 C. Hence, 550 C was chosen as the optimum reaction temperature for propane dehydrogenation to ensure sufficient activity and selectivity for propylene formation. When the weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) was adjusted, the product distribution was compared at similar propane conversion (57%) over different catalysts including CrOx/Al2O3, ZSM-5, and mixed catalysts, as shown in Figure 2 and Table S4. The CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst shows >90% propylene selectivity. This result is expected as CrOx/Al2O3 has been well-known for its superior performance as an industry dehydrogenation catalyst. (23) Dehydrogenation of propane over ZSM-5 produced a significant amount of cracking products including 24% selectivity to methane and 45% selectivity to ethylene, suggesting that the ZSM-5 catalyst is not ideal for propane dehydrogenation, possibly because of the strong acidity of ZSM-5 catalyst. (24) In the case of mixed catalysts, the samples with higher CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratios promote the dehydrogenation reaction, resulting in an increase in propylene selectivity from 73% to 94% (Table S4). In all cases, the aromatic selectivity is negligible (<3%), as shown in the Supporting Information (Table S4).
Figure 2
Figure 2. Propane dehydrogenation over different catalysts. (Reaction conditions: temperature, 550 C; propane feed, 15 vol %; total flow, 330 sccm; catalyst loading, 100 mg.)
CFP reactions of furan with and without the co-feeding of propane were performed over different catalysts at 550 C. Figure 3a shows the aromatic yield using furan, furan/propane, and propane as feedstocks. The yield was compared at similar furan conversions (5362%) with the feedstocks being furan and furan/propane. For CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, the furan conversion is low because of the lack of catalytic active site for CFP. The propane conversions are also similar (57%) in all cases (Tables S3 and S4). Over CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, negligible aromatic yield was observed for all feedstocks, indicating the lack of activity of CrOx/Al2O3 for converting furan and propane into aromatics. A 19% increase in aromatic yield from 14.4% to 17.1% was observed by the co-feeding of propane over ZSM-5. The improvement is largely enhanced with the use of mixed catalysts (40% increase over CrZSM_0.5, 60% increase over CrZSM_1, and 94% increase over CrZSM_2, respectively). It is clear that the co-feeding of propane can improve the aromatic yield from CFP of furan (Table S2), especially with the presence of CrOx/Al2O3 in the mixed catalyst. It should be noted that when only propane is fed into the reaction (green bars), the aromatic yield is much lower as compared to those of furan and furan/propane co-feeding. This suggests that the studied catalysts are not active for propane aromatization under the reaction conditions. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the increase in aromatic yield with the co-feeding of propane is not from the direct propane aromatization, but from the reactions involving CFP of furan. For clarity, the enhancement of aromatic yield was calculated and plotted against CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratio, as shown in Figure 3b. As discussed, ZSM-5 catalyst shows less enhancement as compared to the mixed catalysts. This is due to the lack of ability of ZSM-5 to selectively dehydrogenate propane to propylene. With similar ZSM-5 loading, the enhancement becomes more profound at higher CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratios, because of more dehydrogenation reaction occurring over CrOx/Al2O3. The co-feeding of propane shows no effect on aromatic yield over CrOx/Al2O3. In this case, even though propylene is selectively produced, there are no active sites available on CrOx/Al2O3 to catalyze further reactions between propylene and furan. The results in Figure 3 suggest the necessity of two different active sites that can simultaneously catalyze dehydrogenation and CFP reaction.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Aromatic yield from CFP of furan, furan/propane, and propane over different catalysts. (b) Aromatic yield enhancement with different catalysts. (Reaction conditions: temperature, 550 C; propane feed, 15 vol %; total flow, 330 sccm; furan feed, 0.5 mL/h; catalyst loading, 80 mg for ZSM-5; 100 mg for CrOx/Al2O3; 120, 150, and 210 mg for mixed catalysts with CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratio of 0.5, 1, and 2, respectively.)
The distribution of aromatic products at similar furan conversions (5362%) is shown in Figure 4. CFP of furan over ZSM-5 catalyst shows that benzene and toluene are the major aromatics with an equal selectivity of 33% (Figure 4). This observation was consistent with the literature reporting CFP of furan over ZSM-5. (25) Larger aromatics including xylenes, styrenes (styrene and methylstyrenes), alkylbenzenes (ethylbenzene and 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene), indenes (indene and methylindenes), and naphthalenes (naphthalene and methylnaphthalenes) are present in much smaller percentages. This result is largely due to the shape selectivity imposed by the microporous structure of ZSM-5 catalyst, which is favorable for the formation of molecules with six-membered carbon rings. (19) The co-feeding of propane with furan results in a slightly increased selectivity to toluene from 33% to 37% over ZSM-5 catalyst. More profound increase was observed by introducing CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst (from 37% to 43%). Among mixed catalysts, the selectivity to toluene shows strong dependence on the CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratio, increasing from 43% to 50% as the ratio increases from 0.5 to 2. CFP reaction has been proposed to proceed via a hydrocarbon pool mechanism, (26) where benzofuran, formed either by DielsAlder cycloaddition (27) or ring-opening reaction, (28) is a key intermediate for the production of aromatics. In this work, the increase in toluene selectivity resulting from propane co-feeding can be explained by the participation of produced propylene through two possible mechanisms. The first mechanism is the direct DielsAlder cycloaddition of furan and propylene to toluene, which was proposed by Cheng and Huber. (19) The second possible mechanism is the addition of propylene in the hydrocarbon pool which may enhance the selectivity to toluene. (29,30) Further studies are required to understand the reaction pathways for toluene formation in the CFP process.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Distribution of aromatic products in CFP of furan with propane over different catalysts. The result for CFP with only furan is also shown for comparison. The conversion of furan is controlled between 53% and 62%. (Reaction conditions: temperature, 550 C; propane feed, 15 vol %; total flow, 330 sccm; furan feed, 0.5 mL/h; catalyst loading, 80 mg for ZSM-5; 120, 150, and 210 mg for mixed catalysts with CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratio of 0.5, 1, and 2, respectively.)
The effect of propane to total flow volume ratio on the aromatic yield was investigated, as shown in Figure 5. The aromatic yield was observed to be directly proportional to the amount of propane as cofeed. With 20 vol % propane co-feeding, we observed a 2.5-fold enhancement in the aromatic yield. The furan conversion, as shown in Table S6, also increases when more propane was fed (from 57.2% to 61.8% with propane to total flow volume ratio increasing from 5% to 15%). As the aromatic yield produced from propane itself is negligible, these trends signify a possible cascade reaction pathway where propane first converts to propylene, which reacts with furan to form aromatics. As more propane was fed, more propylene was available for furan to form aromatics, leading to higher aromatic production and furan conversion. (19)
Figure 5
Figure 5. Aromatic yield from CFP of furan with propane co-feeding at different propane to total flow volume ratios over CrZSM_2 catalyst. (Reaction conditions: temperature, 550 C; total flow, 330 sccm; catalyst load, 210 mg; furan feed, 0.5 mL/h.)
To confirm the reaction pathway during CFP of furan with propane co-feeding, we intentionally shut off the dehydrogenation step by switching the co-feeding chemical from propane to propylene. In this study, the propylene to total flow volume ratio was set to be 0.8 vol %. This amount of propylene in the feed is similar to the amount of produced propylene from 15 vol % propane co-feeding at 5% conversion. The 5% conversion of propane was observed in furan/propane co-feeding reaction under the same reaction conditions (Table S3). The role of CrOx/Al2O3 in the mixture catalyst was also investigated by changing the catalyst from CrZSM_2 to pure ZSM-5 with propylene co-feeding. Both results are shown in Figure 6. It can be seen from Figure 6a that the aromatic yield does not change from switching the co-feed (left two columns). It suggests that, with similar propylene concentration in the stream, shutting off the dehydrogenation step does not affect the aromatic yield from the following CFP reaction. This result supports that, in the case of propane co-feeding reaction, propylene is the intermediate and the role of propane is to produce propylene to further react with furan. In the case of propylene co-feeding, removing CrOx/Al2O3 in the mixed catalyst does not affect the aromatic yield (right two columns) either, suggesting that CrOx/Al2O3 itself has no activity on CFP reaction of furan. Figure 6b presents the aromatic product distribution using different co-feeds and catalysts. Similarly, aromatic selectivity does not change with switching the co-feed or removing the CrOx/Al2O3. In all cases, the toluene becomes the dominant aromatic product as compared to the CFP for furan. This further supports the cascade reaction pathway.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Aromatic yield from CFP of furan with the co-feeding of propane and propylene over CrZSM_2 and ZSM-5 catalyst. (Reaction conditions: temperature, 550 C; total flow, 330 sccm; catalyst load, 210 mg for CrZSM_2 and 80 mg for ZSM-5; propane feed, 15 vol %; propylene feed, 0.8 vol %; furan feed, 0.5 mL/h).
The reaction scheme of furan CFP with the co-feeding of propane can be visualized in Figure 7. The reaction follows a typical cascade reaction pathway consisting of two independent catalytic steps catalyzed by two different catalysts. First, dehydrogenation of propane is catalyzed over CrOx/Al2O3, converting propane to propylene. Propylene then enters the micropores of ZSM-5 and react with furan to produce aromatics. As being discussed earlier, the first step can be removed by replacing the propane with propylene as the co-feed. In this case, CrOx/Al2O3 has no effect on the production of aromatics. From our study, direct reactions between propane and furan and synergetic interactions between CrOx/Al2O3 and ZSM-5 were not observed.
Figure 7
Figure 7. CFP of furan with the co-feeding of propane is proposed to follow a cascade reaction scheme. Propane is first dehydrogenated to propylene over CrOx/Al2O3. The propylene then reacts with furan within the micropore of ZSM-5 catalyst to selectively produce aromatics.
We also carried out CFP of furan with propane co-feeding using a stacked bed configuration. In this setup, 150 mg of CrOx/Al2O3 was loaded on the top of 80 mg of ZSM-5 without any mixing. The CrOx/Al2O3 to ZSM-5 weight ratio was kept at 2:1. The goal of this study is to see how the proximity of two catalysts can change reaction results. Detailed reaction breakdown is listed in Table S9. Figure 8 shows the comparison of reaction results using mixed and stacked catalyst beds. We observed that both aromatic yield and toluene selectivity were similar using the two configurations. It further suggests the absence of synergy effects between CrOx/Al2O3 and ZSM-5 so that the proximity of these two catalysts does not affect the reaction results. In the stacked catalyst configuration, the furan/propane mixture first passes through the CrOx/Al2O3 layer, where propane selectively dehydrogenates to propylene. It should be noted that furan also reacts over CrOx/Al2O3, but with much less conversion and aromatic yield as compared to those on ZSM-5. In the layer of ZSM-5, propylene and furan react within the micropores of ZSM-5 catalyst to form aromatics.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Comparison of aromatic yield and product selectivity from CFP of furan with propane co-feeding using different bed configurations. (Reaction conditions: temperature, 550 C; total flow, 330 sccm; catalyst load, 210 mg; propane feed, 15 vol %; furan feed, 0.5 mL/h.)
Figure 9 shows the change of furan conversion over CrZSM_2 catalyst as a function of time on stream with and without the co-feeding of propane. As expected, furan conversion decreases continuously with time on stream in both cases because of coke accumulation within the micropores of ZSM-5 catalyst. When only furan was fed, furan conversion drops from 57% to 26% after 5 min, and the catalyst is completely deactivated after 15 min. As discussed in the Introduction, the rapid deactivation of catalyst has been well-known as a major drawback for CFP process, (10,31) and a complete deactivation of ZSM-5 within a similar time on stream has been observed from our previous study. (12) In the case of propane co-feeding, however, the loss of activity occurs less rapidly. After the first 5 min, the catalyst retains 87% of its activity as furan conversion decreases from 63% to 55%. At 15 min time on stream, instead of losing all the activity in the previous case, the same catalyst still shows 26% of furan conversion. The coke formed within zeolites at high temperatures has been reported to be polyaromatics because of the oligomerization of aromatic species. (32) This more selective formation of aromatics leads to a lower degree of oligomerization, leading to less deposit of polyaromatics.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Time-on-stream study of CFP of furan and furan/propane over CrZSM_2. (Reaction conditions: temperature, 550 C; propane feed, 15 vol %; total flow, 330 sccm; catalyst loading, 210 mg; furan feed, 0.5 mL/h.)
Besides propylene, the dehydrogenation of propane also produces hydrogen, which can potentially react with furan via hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) reaction to remove the oxygen atom in the furan ring. In this work, we have tested CFP of furan with the co-feeding of hydrogen (15 vol %) over CrZSM_2 catalyst, but no HDO products were observed, as shown in Figure S1. It suggests that the mixed catalyst cannot catalyze the HDO reaction under the reaction conditions. The effect of ethane co-feeding was also investigated. While the CrOx/Al2O3 can selectively dehydrogenate ethane to ethylene (Table S1), no significant enhancement in the aromatic yield was observed (Figure S2(a)). Similarly, aromatic selectivity shown in Figure S2(b) does not change with ethane co-feeding either. The results presented in Figure S2 indicate that even though ethylene can be produced, it is not as active as propylene for further reaction with furan. This result is consistent with previous literature where no significant benefits were observed from CFP of furan with the co-feeding of ethylene. (19)
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In conclusion, CFP of furan with propane co-feeding was studied over ZSM-5, CrOx/Al2O3, and mixed catalysts consisting of CrOx /Al2O3 and ZSM-5 with various weight ratios. The addition of propane as co-feed increases the aromatic yield and reduces the coke formation, especially over the mixed catalysts, because of the participation of propylene produced from the dehydrogenation of propane on CrOx/Al2O3. The dominant aromatic product was also tuned from benzene to toluene. From mechanistic studies, a two-step cascade reaction pathway was proposed over the bifunctional mixed catalyst. Propane first dehydrogenates to propylene on CrOx/Al2O3, which then enters the micropore of ZSM-5 to further react with furan.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 