I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Fine-Tuning the Activity of MetalOrganic Framework-Supported Cobalt Catalysts for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane
Abstract
Few-atom cobalt-oxide clusters, when dispersed on a Zr-based metalorganic framework (MOF) NU-1000, have been shown to be active for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane at low temperatures (<230 C), affording a selective and stable propene production catalyst. In our current work, a series of promoter ions with varying Lewis acidity, including Ni(II), Zn(II), Al(III), Ti(IV) and Mo(VI), are anchored as metal-oxide,hydroxide clusters to NU-1000 followed by Co(II) ion deposition, yielding a series of NU-1000-supported bimetallic-oxo,hydroxo,aqua clusters. Using difference envelope density (DED) analyses, the spatial locations of the promoter ions and catalytic cobalt ions are determined. For all samples, the promoter ions are sited between pairs of Zr6 nodes along the MOF c-axis, whereas the location of the cobalt ions varies with the promoter ions. These NU-1000-supported bimetallic-oxide clusters are active for propane ODH after thermal activation under O2 to open a cobalt coordination site and to oxidize Co(II) to Co(III), as evidenced by operando X-ray absorption spectroscopy at the Co K-edge. In accord with the decreasing Lewis acidity of the promoter ion, catalytic activity increases in the following order: Mo(VI) < Ti(IV) < Al(III) < Zn(II) < Ni(II). The finding is attributed to increasing ease of formation of Co(III)O• species and stabilization of a cobalt(III)-oxyl/propane transition state as the Lewis acidity of the promoter ions decreases. The results point to an increasing ability to fine-tune the structure-dependent activity of MOF-supported heterogeneous catalysts. Coupled with mechanistic studiescomputational or experimentalthis ability may translate into informed prediction of improved catalysts for propane ODH and other chemical reactions.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propene is the second most-produced petrochemical feedstock in the United States. (1) It can be used to manufacture many useful chemicals and compounds including polypropylene, poly(propylene oxide), cumene, etc. (2) Industrially, propene is mainly produced from the thermal cracking or fluid catalytic cracking of naphtha, both of which are highly energy-intensive and suffer from low propene yield with heavy coke formation. (3) With growing shale-gas supplies, a more selective and deliberate propene production route via a direct propane dehydrogenation process is of interest. However, unfavorable thermodynamic constraints impede propane conversion at low temperature. (4) These limitations have led to interest in the petrochemical industry in developing more selective, energy-efficient, propene production catalysts. One intriguing strategy is to couple the reaction with an oxidant (e.g., O2) to lower the thermodynamic barrier. (5) This process, termed oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), takes advantage of the large amount of heat generated from the formation of H2O to facilitate propane conversion at lower temperatures. (6) For an efficient low-temperature propane ODH catalytic system, the most desired features include appreciable catalytic activity conjointly with minimal selectivity toward the over-oxidized products. (7, 8) Of the reported catalysts, supported-VOx, MoOx systemswhere the support is used to enhance the catalyst stability, lifetime, and catalytic performanceare perhaps the most well-studied. (6, 9) Commonly used supports include high-surface area (100300 m2 g1) zirconia, silica or alumina (10) and oftentimes one or several promoter elements are incorporated in the catalyst systems to tune the catalytic activity and/or alkene selectivity. (11, 12) For example, a series of alkaline metal ions doped into a ZrO2-supported MoOx catalyst was shown to affect the propene production rate by tuning the Lewis acidity of the Mo6+ active sites. (13)
Featuring a variety of possible inorganic nodes and organic linkers, metalorganic frameworks (MOFs) have emerged as an important alternative family of porous materials. Their characteristic crystallinity and modularity (14-16) have inspired exploration of a wide variety of potential applications, ranging from gas storage/separation, (17) chemical sensing, (18) and water capture (19-21) to heterogeneous catalysis. (22-25) High-stability, high surface area (10002000 m2 g1), zirconium-node-containing MOFs, (26, 27) such as those in the UiO family, (28, 29) PCN-222 (30) (MOF-545), (31) and NU-1000, (32) have been shown to be effective as heterogeneous catalysts or as supports for various metal-oxide and metal-sulfide clusters. (33-39) For example, the Zr6 node in NU-1000, with chemical formula Zr6(μ3-O)4(μ3-OH)4(H2O)4(OH)4, (40) can be viewed as a molecular-scale analogue of bulk zirconia with reactive OH2 and OH groups that can act as metal-ion anchoring sites. (41-43) In contrast to bulk zirconia, however, the hexa-zirconium modules or nodes are spatially separated by the linker 1,3,6,8-tetrakis(p-benzoate)pyrene (TBAPy4). The separation, while only on the order of a nanometer, effectively mitigates migration of MOF nodes, as well as supported metal ions, thereby inhibiting sintering of active sites during chemical catalysis. (44-46)
We recently showed that cobalt(II) ions, when supported on NU-1000 via either atomic layer deposition in MOFs (AIM, Co-AIM+NU-1000) or solvothermal deposition in MOFs (SIM, Co-SIM+NU-1000), show stable propane ODH activity at temperatures as low as 200 C, which is several tens of degrees lower than typically required to observe catalytic ODH of propane. (47) Lower temperatures are important, in part, because they can serve to favor ODH over full oxidation to CO2. On the basis of DFT modeling of a simplified (monocobalt) active-site, the homolytic cleavage of a terminal CH bond in propane constitutes the rate-determining step during the catalytic cycle, and a Co(III)O• species, derived from a Co(II)OH species under O2, is the active form of the catalyst (Scheme 1).
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Top: Propane ODH Reaction; Middle and Bottom: Oxidative Formation of Proposed Cobalt(III)-Oxyl Active Site in the Absence or Presence of Promoters (M)a
Scheme aPrevious DFT modeling of a simplified active site indicates that the oxyl electron-spin-density is likely spread over multiple oxo ligands and that the active site is in an overall low-spin (S = 3/2) configuration. The proposed rate-determining step entails oxyl attack on a propane CH bond (i.e., H-atom abstraction) that converts oxyl to hydroxo and cobalt(III) to cobalt(II), and yields CH3CHCH3 as an intermediate. Note that DED and ICP results point to more complex arrangements of cobalt ions, such as tetra-cobaltoxo,hydroxo clusters.
We reasoned that the energetics of the O2-driven active-site regeneration step could be influenced by additives, such as secondary metal cations, which influence the Co(III/II) redox potential. We further reasoned that changes in the energetic accessibility of Co(III) could engender related changes in the proposed oxyl radical, including changes in electron spin densitya parameter deemed catalytically important by previous DFT studies. (47) To the extent that these changes can be introduced, we anticipate changes in the energy of the active-site/propane complex and in the energy of the ensuing transition state for the rate-determining abstraction of atomic hydrogen from the hydrocarbon. Finally, we anticipate changes in the overall rate of cobalt-oxyl-catalyzed propane ODH. Thus, we expect systematic changes in the ease of formation of Co(III) to translate into systematic and highly tunable changes in catalytic activity for propane ODH.
We hypothesized that the introduction of a second Lewis acidic metal ion would exert the desired influence upon Co(III) and, more importantly, Co(III)-oxyl accessibility, which was nicely shown by recent electrochemical findings for binuclear metallic complexes in homogeneous solution, i.e., spectator-metal modulation of Co(III/II) formal potentials. (48) Ultimately, the added metal ions (promoters) should tune the catalytic activity of the MOF-supported oxy-cobalt cluster. (49) For the current study, we selected Ni(II), Zn(II), Al(III), Ti(IV) and Mo(VI) as candidate promoters, resulting in a series of NU-1000-supported bimetallic-oxide catalysts (Figure 1). Installed on MOF nodes as oxy/metal-cation clusters, the Lewis acidity of the promoter ions correlates well with the observed propane ODH catalytic activity of the supported oxy-cobalt cluster. Synchrotron-based X-ray structural data reveal, as one might expect, that the correlation is strongest when similar catalyst/promoter/node spatial arrangements are obtained. To the extent that variations in siting occur, detectable deviations from the activity/Lewis-acidity correlation occur.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic representation of the preparation of the NU-1000-supported bimetallic catalysts. The promoter ions are anchored via SIM (pink) and Co ions are anchored via AIM (blue).
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
For each material, promoter ions were anchored to the MOF support via SIM before Co(II) ions were deposited via AIM; see Supporting Information for details of the syntheses and for representative characterization data, Figures S1S3. The choice of SIM (as opposed to AIM) to anchor the promoter ions reflects the comparative ease of scaling the SIM anchoring chemistry. (50) The choice of AIM, as opposed to SIM, for Co installation reflects the previously observed higher catalytic activity of the AIM version. (47) As an example synthesis of catalyst/promoter/node assemblies, Ni(II) ions were first incorporated in NU-1000 by SIM using Ni(OOCCH3)2·4H2O as the Ni(II) source and the resulting material is denoted as Ni(II)-SIM+NU-1000. Subsequently, using Ni(II)-SIM+NU-1000 as the reactant in an ALD reactor, Co(II) was deposited within Ni(II)-SIM+NU-1000 by using bis(N,N-di-isopropylacetamidinato)-cobalt(II) vapor as a precursor. The assembly was then exposed to steam to remove remaining organic ligands and install aqua, oxo, and/or hydroxo ligands. The product is denoted as CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+NU-1000. The other four materials, CoAIM-Zn(II)SIM+..., CoAIM-Al(III)SIM+..., CoAIM-Ti(IV)SIM+..., and CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU-1000, were synthesized in a similar fashion. Details of their synthesis and characterization are compiled in the Supporting Information (Figures S4S9). The typical loadings for the promoter ions are 34 per Zr6 node, whereas there are 68 Co(II) ions on each Zr6 node.
To locate the promoter ions and Co species within NU-1000 we applied a difference envelope density (DED) analysis using synchrotron-derived X-ray powder diffraction data, together with the known single-crystal X-ray structure of the unmodified MOF. In a porous crystalline system, the structure envelope represents a surface that separates regions of low and high electron density as indicated by the low-order reflections in the X-ray powder diffraction data. (51) By subtracting the structure envelope of a parent material from that of a postsynthetically modified material, a DED is obtained which maps the location of new electron density corresponding to the newly anchored species in the modified material. (52) The use of only high intensity, low angle diffraction peaks to generate the structure envelope renders the DED technique highly reproducible, as can be seen from our previous studies. (42, 47, 52) The lack of high angle diffraction data, on the other hand, limits us from obtaining the atomically precise structural information on these newly anchored species. Here, DEDs were determined sequentially: the locations of the promoter ions were evaluated using NU-1000 as the reference, while the locations of the cobalt ions in the CoAIM-MSIM+NU-1000 system were evaluated using the relevant M-SIM+NU-1000 as the reference. For all M-SIM+NU-1000 assemblies examined, the electron density from the M ions (and oxy ligands) are sited between adjacent Zr6 nodes along the c crystallographic axis as shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Representative DED maps viewing along the MOF crystallographic c-axis (left) and a-axis (right) showing the locations of Co ions in (a) CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+NU1000 (the DED maps for CoAIM-Al(III)SIM+... and CoAIM-Ti(IV)SIM+NU-1000 are similar); (b) CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU-1000; (c) CoAIM-Zn(II)SIM+NU-1000. Co: blue mesh; Al, Ni, Ti: green surface; Mo: magenta surface; Zn: yellow surface.
In contrast to the promoters, the location of the AIM-anchored Co ions (and oxy ligands) varies with the chemical identity of the promoter. For CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+..., CoAIM-Al(III)SIM+..., and CoAIM-Ti(IV)SIM+NU-1000, the cobalt ions are sited on the promoter-ion-containing cluster, rather than directly on the hexa-zirconium(IV) node. Thus, the catalytic entities appear to comprise cobalt-oxo,hydroxo clusters that extend into the MOFs hexagonal channels (mesopores; see Figure 2a). For CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU1000 they are sited exclusively on the MOF nodes (hexa-Zr(IV)-oxy,hydroxy units); see Figure 2b. For CoAIM-Zn(II)SIM+NU1000, they are sited on both the Zr and promoter; see Figure 2b. (53) The underlying reasons for the differences in the distribution of the cobalt-containing assemblies with different promoter compositions are currently being explored computationally and these results will be reported elsewhere; nevertheless, for the Mo(VI)-based promotera probable strong Brnsted acidwe can speculate that its inability to undergird oxy-cobalt clusters is traceable to an absence of aqua and/or hydroxo ligands capable of reacting with vapor-phase bis(N,N-di-isopropylacetamidinato)-cobalt(II) molecules.
Following activation, i.e., heating for 4 h at 230 C under a flow of a 5:3 molar ratio of O2 and propane, we find that all five NU-1000-supported bimetallic-oxide assemblies are active as catalysts for propane ODH (T = 230 C, O2: propane = 5:6). Cobalt was confirmed to be the only directly catalytically active metal component, as no propene production was observed, under these conditions, for cobalt-free M-SIM+NU-1000 assemblies after activation. For all five Zr(IV)-supported, bimetallic-oxide cluster assemblies, CO2 and propene are the only observed carbon-containing products during the catalysis (Figure 3a). By varying the molar space time of propane (Figure 3b), the turnover frequencies (TOFs) on a per-Co-atom basis for the catalysts were determined to be 2.41  0.22, 1.65  0.09, 0.95  0.10, 0.76  0.08 and 0.47  0.05 h1 for CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+..., CoAIM-Zn(II)SIM+..., CoAIM-Al(III)SIM+..., CoAIM-Ti(IV)SIM+..., and CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU-1000, respectively, as compared to 1.02  0.09 h1 for Co-AIM+NU-1000 and 0.54  0.12 h1 for Co-SIM+NU-1000 from our previous study. (47) If the TOF variations with promoter ion are attributed solely to modulation of the energy of the transition state for single rate-determining step, the energy differences span 7 kJ/mol. Notably, the activated catalysts were operationally stable over the course of rate measurements, with less than 3% decrease in activity being observed with 20 h time on stream (TOS) (Figure 3c). Postcatalysis characterization of samples indicates that their crystallinity and surface areas are largely retained, as is the morphology of the microcrystallites; see Supporting Information, including Figures S10S14.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Propane ODH process catalyzed by NU-1000-supported bimetallic catalysts, including CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+..., CoAIM-Zn(II)SIM+..., CoAIM-Al(III)SIM+..., CoAIM-Ti(IV)SIM+..., and CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU-1000. (a) Scheme illustrating the potential competition of propene formation (k1) with CO2 formation, either via propene combustion (k3) or via direction combustion of propane (k2); (b) TOF values at 230 C, as determined by varying the space velocity of propane; (c) catalytic stability over the course of 20 h; (d) relationships between propane conversion and propene selectivity at 230 C as compared to that of Co-AIM+NU-1000.
The relationship between propane conversion and propene selectivity was examined at 230 C by systematically changing the molar space velocity of the reactants (propane + O2); results for all five versions of the promoted catalysts are presented in Figure 3d. At a fixed propane conversion, the propene selectivity for the supported bimetallic-oxide cluster catalysts is only marginally different than that of promoter-free Co-AIM+NU-1000, presumably due to the active sites being the Co species in all samples. Also, similar to the reported behavior of Co-AIM+... and Co-SIM+NU-1000, the propene selectivity increases as the propane conversion decreases at 230 C and approaches 100% at very low propane conversion. On the basis of these observations, we conclude that the CO2 formation is mainly from the total oxidation of the in situ generated, more reactive propene rather than from the direct combustive oxidation of propane (i.e., k2  0).
In situ X-ray absorption spectra at the Co K-edge were collected to gain further electronic and structural information about the Co sites in the as-synthesized materials as well as to identify changes associated with initial catalyst activation. In the X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectral region, a low-intensity pre-edge peak at 7709.4 eV, corresponding to the 1s  3d transition, is present in all samples; see Figures 4a and S15. Along with the observation that the post-edge minima are at 7749.5 eV, the Co ions in all the as-synthesized samples are concluded to be divalent. (54) Upon activation in O2, a slight increase in the pre-edge peak intensity and a decrease in the white-line intensity occur in the XANES spectra for all samples, pointing to the formation of Co(III) ionsa finding that is corroborated by postcatalysis X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy data measured (Figures S10S14). In the Fourier-transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra for all samples, a peak at 1.56 Å (phase-uncorrected distance) is evident and is associated with the first shell CoO single-scattering path, the fitting of which gives an average CoO bond distance of 2.04 Å. (See Figure 4b for CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+NU-1000 and Figures S16S25 for all five samples before and after catalysis.) Consistent with conversion of at least some of the cobalt(II) ions to cobalt(III), this peak shifts slightly with activation and yields a slightly shorter average CoO bond distance at 2.00 Å. The fitting results also suggest that the average coordination number (CN) of Co decreases slightly (<1), most likely due to the loss of one H2O ligand coordinated to the Co centers to open the reactive site for substrate binding. Differing from the activated Co-AIM+NU-1000 sample, no Co···Co scattering paths can be reliably fitted in the NU-1000-supported bimetallic-oxide samples, suggesting, but not proving, that the Co sites are comparatively isolated during catalysis, despite the gross structural evidence from DED measurements for cobalt cluster formation. In this respect, the findings parallel those for promoter-free Co-SIM+NU-1000 where there are apparent atomic-scale isolation of cobalt centers, but contrast with those for promoter-free Co-AIM+NU-1000 for which Co···Co scattering is clearly observed and proximity of pairs of oxy-ligand bridged cobalt ions is evident upon activation. (47) Given these differences, the activity of Co-SIM+NU-1000 should be a better point of reference than the activity of Co-AIM+NU-1000 for understanding the ODH activities of the new catalysts.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) XANES spectra for CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+NU-1000 before and after activation; (b) k2-weighted magnitude of the Fourier transform of the EXAFS spectra from k = 3.0 to 12.0 Å1 for CoAIM-Ni(II)SIM+NU-1000 before and after catalysis.
The relative Lewis acidities of the promotors can be indirectly evaluated by reference to the pKa values (first pKa) of the corresponding metal-aqua complexes, M(aqua)xn+ at 25 C in water. Reported values are 9.9, 9.0, 5.0, 1.8, and 0.22 for Ni2+, Zn2+, Al3+, Ti4+ and Zr4+, respectively. (55) An experimental value is not available for Mo(H2O)x6+, but undoubtedly it is negative. (56) The observed activities of the five NU-1000-supported bimetallic-oxide catalysts vary as Ni(II) > Zn(II) > Al(III) > Ti(IV) > Mo(VI), opposite to the Lewis acidity of the promoter ions.
For bulk metal-oxides, the relative Lewis acidity, either of a promoter ion or the active site, is well-known to affect propane ODH primarily via effects on the basicity of the lattice O atom involved in the CH bond activation step. (13, 57, 58) Since, under our experimental conditions, the various M-SIM+NU-1000 materials are inactive for propane ODH, the effect of the promoter ions on catalytic activity must stem from their influence on the subsequently installed cobalt-AIM sites. Previous DFT-based computational modeling of propane ODH catalysis of a hypothetical single-cobalt-atom version of the MOF-supported catalyst pointed to the H-atom abstraction by a Co(III)O• moiety as the rate-determining step. The energy of the transition-state for Co(III)O• abstraction of a second H atom to yield Co(II)OH is significantly lower than that for the isopropyl migration from cobalt to ligated oxygen, serving to steer the reaction toward propene formation and completion of the proposed catalytic cycle. (47) As noted above, we expect the Lewis acidity of proximal promoters to modulate the energy of the crucial Co(III)O• containing moiety, where we are agnostic about the number of bridging oxo ligands over which the oxyl radical character may be distributed. We are also agnostic about which metal ions partner with Co(III) to stabilize the seven-valence-electron oxygen radical. It seems clear, however, that the influence of promoter metal ions, M, will be much greater for a Co(III)O•M configured active site than for one configured, for example, as Co(III)O•Co(II)OM. We note again that the variations in ODH catalyst turnover frequency are in the fine-tuning, rather than gross modulation, regime and are equivalent to a ca. 7 kJ/mol range of variations in transition-state energy.
Figure 5 presents a plot of catalyst TOF versus relative Lewis acidity of the promoter, as inferred-from/represented-by pKa values for the corresponding metal-aqua complexes (vide supra). The correlation embodied in the plot is consistent, in an overall sense, with our hypothesis concerning how promoter ions influence the energy of the transition state for the putative rate-determining step, i.e., cobalt-oxyl extraction of the second hydrogen atom from propane. A closer look, however, shows that if the TOF for CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU-1000 were plotted using the first pKa of a hypothetical Mo(VI)aqua complex (i.e., unknown, but significantly negative), the TOF would deviate (i.e., would be larger) than expected on the basis of extrapolation the linear correlation of TOF vs pKa (relative Lewis acidity) for the bimetallic-oxide clusters featuring less highly Lewis acidic promoter ions. The TOF for CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU-1000, however, does appear where we would expect if the relevant Lewis acid is the oxy-Zr(IV) node. Indeed, the available structural data point to the node rather than the Mo(VI)-containing promoter as the component most closely chemically interacting with the oxy-cobalt species, i.e., the catalyst active-site. Turning the observation around, we suggest that structural deviations from the most prevalent spatial arrangement of catalyst, promoter, and node, will be predictive of departures from correlations of catalyst activity with promoter electronic properties.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Phenomenological relationship between the pKa of the promoter ion and the catalytic activity of the NU-1000-supported bimetallic catalysts. Note: (1) From EXAFS analysis, the active Co sites in these NU-1000-supported bimetallic catalysts are similar to those in Co-SIM+NU-1000, explaining the better fit of Co-SIM+... than Co-AIM+NU-1000; (2) For CoAIM-Mo(VI)SIM+NU-1000, the used pKa value is that of Zr4+ since the Co ions are exclusively deposited onto the nodes from DED analysis. Bimetallic: blue. Monometallic: orange.
Also included in Figure 5 are TOF values for AIM and SIM preparations of the promoter-free version of the ODH catalyst where the relevant Lewis acid is the zirconia-like node of the MOF. The TOF value for the SIM preparation fits well with the Lewis acidity correlation, whereas the TOF value for the AIM preparation is larger than anticipated based on the correlation. We propose that small structural differences again account for the deviation. Notably, CoAIM+NU-1000 is unique in displaying clear evidence (from EXAFS) for a closely proximal pair of cobalt ions. Despite DED evidence for oxy-cobalt cluster formation, X-ray absorption data for the other six catalysts lack this specific feature. These findings, together with those for the Mo(VI)-containing bimetallic-oxide version of the ODH catalyst, underscore the value of synthesizing arrays of heterogeneous catalyst/promoter/support assemblies featuring single-atom or close-to-single-atom specificity for both chemical composition and spatial configuration.
Finally, a possible alternative, albeit indirect, approach to anticipating the relative effects of promoter ions upon catalytic activity for various MOF-supported, cobalt(III)-oxyl catalysts would be to gauge the effects of promoters upon the Co(III/II) redox potential. To this end, cyclic voltammetry was used to assess the cobalt-based electrochemical response of the various as-synthesized catalyst/promoter/node assemblies. As shown in Table S3 and Figure S26, the onset potential for the appearance of Co(III) shifts increasingly positive as the Lewis acidity of the promoter increases. This observation is reminiscent of behavior observed for several series of heterometallic coordination complexes where the Lewis acidity of a redox-innocent metal ion affects the redox potential of a proximal metal center. (59-61) The electrochemical probe conceivably could prove useful with more complex assembliesfor example, ones featuring multiple types of promoting ions having differing Lewis acidities or ones featuring promoting ions characterized by chemically mixed coordination environments (e.g., oxy ligands in combination with, say, nitrogen-based or sulfur-based ligands)as its application does not require an independent knowledge of promoter Lewis acidity.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
We find that a range of inorganic catalytic promotersoxy clusters of Ni(II), Zn(II), Al(III), Ti(IV), and Mo(VI)can be controllably introduced into a catalytic assembly comprising cobalt(II)oxo,hydroxo species (active-site precursors) on the zirconia-like nodes of NU-1000 (atomically well-defined supports). The crystallinity of the MOF, including its nodes, enables the locations of catalysts and promotors to be established via successive DED analyses of high resolution, synchrotron-derived powder X-ray diffraction data in combination with the single-crystal X-ray structure of the naked support, i.e., unmodified NU-1000. In turn, the structural findings provide insight into the chemical basis for the effects of the promoters.
As shown elsewhere, even without promoters the MOF-supported cobalt catalyst is an unusually effective catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Thus, it functions at temperatures well below those of most other transition-metal-oxide catalysts. We now find that weakly Lewis acidic promoters can accelerate the cobalt-mediated propane ODH, while strongly acidic metal oxides slow the reaction. The observed catalytic activity for metal-ion-promoted ODH of propane is in the order Ni(II) > Zn(II) > Al(III) > Ti(IV) > Mo(VI). The active species, in all cases, remains cobalt, with initial catalyst activation (ligand loss + cobalt oxidation) being achieved by heating in O2. Previous computational and experimental work, in the absence of promoters, pointed to an under-coordinated cobalt(III)-oxyl species, of unspecified metal nuclearity, as the catalytically active component. We propose that the role of the promoter is to alter the energetic accessibility of Co(III)O• moieties, and, more importantly, the energy of the transition-state for rate-limiting H atom abstraction step. The observed rate modulation is interpreted as tuning of the energy of the transition state over a range of ca. 7 kJ/mol.
The salient features of the promoter in altering the energy of the relevant transition state are the promoters Lewis acidity and its siting relative to the oxy-cobalt active site(s). These features yield a correlation of catalyst TOF with the pKa of the promoting ion, when the ion is examined in aqueous solution as a single-metal-center aqua complex. (Thus, pKa values for the solution-phase complexes appear to be good proxies for the relative Lewis acidities of the promoters.) Notably, departures from the correlation are paralleled by structural differences for specific catalyst/promoter/support (MOF node) assemblies. These differences are readily observable in the aforementioned DED maps of catalyst cluster siting and in comparative EXAFS assessments of cobaltcobalt proximity (or isolation) within clusters.
The wide variety of candidate promoter ions, their ease of installation and their effectiveness in tuning catalytic activity, coupled with the structurally well-defined features of the support, render MOF-supported bimetallic-oxide clusters well-suited for mechanistically relevant investigation of factors determining catalyst activity and selectivity. The findings here, specifically for propane ODH, underscore the value of synthesizing arrays of heterogeneous catalyst/promoter/support assemblies featuring close-to-single-atom specificity for both chemical composition and spatial configuration. We suggest that these kinds of studies, in combination with computational modeling, can be exploited to identify relevant catalyst design principles and, ideally, to guide the synthesis of improved catalysts. Our current ODH-specific work is focused on (a) melding experimental findings with DFT-centered computational modeling of increasingly sophisticated models of ODH catalyst active sites, and (b) exploiting the findings already in hand to predictively expand the experimental range of tunability of the catalytic activity of these intriguing MOF-supported, bimetallic-oxide clusters.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 