<DOCUMENT>
Level Crossing Resonance Studies of the Muoniated Cyclohexadienyl Radical (MuĊ6H6) Interacting with Uncapped Gold Nanoparticles in Porous Silica Hosts
Abstract
The study of metal nanoparticles (NPs) and gold NPs (AuNPs), in particular, has been a subject of considerable interest in recent years. The present paper reports on the formation of the muoniated cyclohexadienyl radical in the Mu + C6H6 → MuĊ6H6 addition reaction in the same 8 and 10 nm AuNP samples, encapsulated in SBA-15 mesoporous silica, where the spin-relaxation rates λMu were recently reported on [Fleming J. Phys. Chem. C, 2019, 123, 27628, paper “P1”], but the final state was not identified in that study. The formation of this MuĊ6H6 radical and its interactions with the AuNP surfaces is investigated herein by the technique of avoided level crossing (ALC) resonance spectroscopy, for the same range of Bz loadings as studied earlier. The positions of the level crossings, giving the hyperfine coupling constants (hfcc) for the C–Mu and C–H bonds at the “ipso” position where Mu adds to the ring, are essentially the same as those seen in solid Bz and in bare silica, and hence these hfcc do not distinguish site locations for the surface-adsorbed benzene. The amplitudes of these resonances, which are a measure of the fraction of Mu forming the free-radical final state, do, however, provide such a distinction, being much less for Bz adsorbed in the AuNP/silica samples than in the bare silica. This loss in amplitude is attributed to competitive reaction channels, one forming the MuĊ6H6 free radical interacting with the AuNPs and the other due to formation of diamagnetic final states. An important signpost as to the nature of these competitive reaction channels is provided by the measured widths of the ALC resonances seen. These are surprisingly narrower in the presence of the AuNPs than for the bare silica, implying that the MuĊ6H6 radical is not in direct contact with the AuNPs. These differing possibilities and contrasting mechanisms are discussed.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
 SPECIAL ISSUE
Published as part of The Journal of Physical Chemistry virtual special issue “125 Years of The Journal of Physical Chemistry”.
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Metal nanoparticles (NPs) and, here, gold NPs (AuNPs) are of general interest in the fields of surface science, (1) magnetism, (2−4) and catalysis, (5−10) with processes involving free radicals (5,11−18) in the latter regard being particularly relevant here. In order to explore the surface interactions of atoms and molecules with metal NP surfaces, it is essential that the NPs remain isolated and nonaggregating, which is often done by employing molecular capping agents, typically organic thiol groups. (1,2,4,19) However, these can change the nature and stability of metal NPs (20) and hence their surface reactivity. Recently, we explored hydrogen atom interactions with AuNPs utilizing the light hydrogenic H atom “muonium”, composed of a positive muon and an electron (Mu = μ+e–, mass 0.114 amu (5,7,21−23)), in studies of its surface magnetism (3,4) and reactivity on AuNPs, (3,5,23) encapsulated in mesoporous (SBA-15) silica hosts. (3,11,23−25) The porous silica not only prevents the aggregation of the AuNPs but importantly also provides for measurements on uncapped NP surfaces.
Heterogeneous catalysis has been an important topic in the chemical sciences for many years, (9,26,27) in which oxide environments in general (28,29) and silicious environments in particular, including mesoporous silica (9,10,30,31) and zeolites, (32−34) have often been used as supports for catalytically active species. The acidic properties of such environments (32,34−36) are also important, via proton or H atom transfer reactions to guest molecules (7,12,27,32−34,37−39) that can also form free-radical intermediates, important to hydrogenation reactions in general (6,39) and for benzene in particular. (5,15,16,34,40) Other than from muon science (11,13,22,41−46) though, exemplified by the present paper as well, there are very few examples of the direct observation of such H-adduct free radicals by spectroscopic techniques, notable exceptions relevant here being the HĊ6H6 cyclohexadienyl radical seen in ZSM-5 zeolite (15) and the ethyl CH3ĊH2 and HĊ6H6 radicals interacting with PdNPs investigated by ESR in silica environments. (16) While ESR would generally be the technique of choice for the investigation of free radicals, the confined geometries of mesoporous silica (47) environments can facilitate radical–radical recombination reactions, (48) reducing signal amplitudes which are generally quite weak to begin with, particularly at higher temperatures, as well as likely affecting the measurements of reaction rates in such confined environments. (49)
The Mu atom has thus emerged as key in investigating the dynamics and hyperfine coupling constants of H-adduct free radicals in different environments, forming their muoniated isotopic equivalents (7,11,13,17,22,42−44) by Mu addition reactions, wherein the basic μSR (muon spin rotation, resonance, relaxation) technique effectively allows only one muoniated radical in the system at a time. (5,7,17,22,41,50,51) Though isotopic mass effects on measured hyperfine coupling constants are usually the principal theme of such studies, that is not the case here. Rather, the focus is on the direct observation of the muoniated cyclohexadienyl radical expected to form at AuNP sites in the
(R1)
addition reaction, proposed in ref (5) (hereafter referred to as paper “P1”), where kBz is a rate constant for the addition step and kS is a rate constant for the stabilization of the Mu intermediate excited state (largely due to the exoergicity of the bond formed) on the AuNP surface, assumed to occur on a time scale much faster than its dissociation back to reactants.
As previewed above, the MuĊ6H6 radical is well-known, having been observed in a wide variety of different environments, and is expected also to have formed on surface-adsorbed Bz on the AuNPs in P1. In that study, the muon-spin relaxation rates, λMu, which determined the reaction rates due to (R1), were found to scale linearly with benzene concentration in the silica mesopores, but the final-state MuĊ6H6 radical was not identified. It is the purpose of the present paper to confirm the formation of this final state interacting with AuNPs in the same mesoporous AuNP/silica samples as studied earlier and to further clarify the reaction mechanism(s) involved, via the technique of avoided level crossing (ALC) muon spin resonance. (7,11,17,22,42−46,52−58)
2. Muon Spin Resonance (μSR)
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Background to the Technique
Positive muons (μ+) are produced 100% longitudinally spin-polarized, typically at a proton accelerator, TRIUMF in the present studies, and subsequently decay (μ+ → e+ + νe + ) with a mean life of 2.2 μs, in which the emitted positron, detected in the experiment, is broadcast asymmetrically along the direction of spin polarization at the time of its decay. The amplitude of the μSR signal seen, appropriately known then as the “asymmetry”, depends on the energy of the detected e+ and is generally determined empirically, as in this work. When the μ+ slows down in matter from initial MeV to thermal energies, a large fraction can form the Mu atom by electron capture in the mesoporous silica environments of interest here, expected to thermalize to kBT in about 1 ns, a much shorter time here in comparison with measurements in the gas phase. (59,60)
In general, μSR experiments are carried out in either a longitudinal magnetic field, along the muon spin direction (LF-μSR), or in a transverse field perpendicular to it (TF-μSR), with both incident muon and positron detection counters arranged accordingly. In TF-μSR, the muon spin precesses in the plane of these detectors, giving rise to oscillations in the observed count rate due to the asymmetric decay of the muon, as seen for the precessing Mu atom in weak TFs of a few Gauss in paper P1. In a LF geometry, with the magnetic field applied along the direction of the initial muon spin polarization, the μSR signal seen by “Forward (F)” and “Backward (B)” detectors typically shows no oscillation (there is no spin precession), but rather is described by an exponential decay characteristic of a 1/T1 relaxation rate. However, resonant-like features in the LF can occur at specific magnetic fields due to level crossings (22,42,50,52−56) which lead to low-frequency oscillations. The positions of these crossings provide a powerful method for investigating the electronic structure of a muoniated radical and its hyperfine coupling constants (hfcc) associated with the muon and surrounding nuclear spins. As above, this method is appropriately known as avoided level crossing (ALC) resonance spectroscopy (55,56) or just simply as level crossing resonance (LCR) spectroscopy, and it is the experimental method used herein to specifically identify the MuĊ6H6 free-radical interacting with AuNP surfaces, as depicted in reaction scheme (R1) above.
2.2. Avoided Level Crossing Resonance Spectroscopy
In the microcrystalline AuNP/silica environments here, interactions of the nuclear spin probe are anisotropic in nature, giving rise to terms in the Hamiltonian from magnetic dipole–dipole couplings, (22,51,53,55,56,58) with terms conventionally denoted A to F,
(1)
written in frequency units. Here Dμ and Dk are the strengths of the anisotropic dipolar hyperfine interactions for the electron-muon spins ( is the electron spin operator with that for the muon spin) and electron–nuclear spins ( are the spin operators for the protons here, k = 1–6). The Mu-cyclohexadienyl radical, like its benzene precursor, has a disk-like shape and exhibits facile rotation about its unique symmetry axis, perpendicular to the plane. This gives rise to an axial hyperfine tensor, with
(2)
where r is the distance between the unpaired electron and the point-like dipolar nuclear spin, with components for Dμ in eq 1 given in polar coordinates (22,51,56,58) by
(3)
where θ is the angle between the unique symmetry axis of the MuĊ6H6 radical and the applied LF, and ϕ is the azimuthal angle. Note that the scalar product for the isotropic hyperfine interaction in eq 1, can be written as with similar terms for the electron–proton spins, which has the same combination of operators as in Aμ and Bμ in eq 3 for the anisotropic interaction terms. As seen from eq 2, the strength Dμ is ∝ γeγμ, the product of electron and muon gyromagnetic ratios. Similar terms also enter for the proton–electron anisotropy, but since γμ = 3.184 γp, Dk = Dp plays a smaller role.
In magnetic fields well above the hyperfine coupling field for the muoniated radical of interest (∼185 G for MuĊ6H6 (7,45,46)), in the Zeeman region, the product eigenstates of muon, electron, and protons exhibit avoided level crossings, giving rise to ALC resonances at specific applied longitudinal magnetic fields. (7,22,42,50−52,56,58) This is shown in Figure 1 for a single proton, (22) which in fact is the case of interest here for the “ipso” position where Mu adds to the benzene ring, giving a methylene −CHMu group. The top part of this figure shows schematic results for the energies of this three spin (1/2) system, assuming an axial hyperfine interaction (2), labeled by their usual spin projections α and β for electron, muon, and nuclear k = proton spins.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic illustrating the nature of ALC resonances at specific applied magnetic fields for electron, muon, and nuclear (k = proton) spins in high longitudinal fields, where the eigenstates are given by product Zeeman states. The nonphysical crossings are shown as dashed sections in the above red curves, which plot the field dependence of the eigenstates for electron spin-up states (αe), with their avoided crossings shown by the blue-line ALC Lorentzian line shapes in the bottom part of this figure. The peak amplitudes depend on the values of the isotropic hfcc for the Δ0 lines and on the strengths of the anisotropic interactions for the Δ1 lines. Republished with permission of the Royal Society of Chemistry, from ref (22); permission conveyed through Copyright Clearance Center, Inc.
Three distinct types of ALC resonances are seen with increasing LF in Figure 1, characterized by the change in total spin projections for fixed electron spin, αe, ΔM = Δ(mμ + mp) between initial and final eigenstates = 2, 1, and 0, corresponding to a muon-proton spin “flip–flip”, muon spin “flip” and muon-proton spin “flip-flop”, respectively, all of which derive from specific terms in the Hamiltonian of eq 1. (Similar results are seen for the βe electron spin.) Thus, for the ΔM = 1 resonance, (hereafter Δ1) the two Zeeman states |αeαμβp⟩ and |αeβμβp⟩ mix in first order due to the and muon operators of the off-diagonal Cμ and Dμ terms in eq 3, resulting in an avoided crossing in which only the muon spin flips between |αμ⟩ and |βμ⟩, independent of other nuclear spins. This crossing arises only from muon–electron hyperfine anisotropy (25,51−54) and so is arguably the most sensitive probe of the muon environment. For counters fixed in a longitudinal geometry, the F/B ratio changes sign on resonance, giving rise to the ALC dip seen for the strong Δ1 line at midfield in Figure 1.
The upper ΔM = 0 (Δ0) resonance shown is due to the mixing of |αeβμαp⟩ and |αeαμβp⟩ states from similar operators as and above, involving both the muon and proton spins simultaneously, in second order, arising from the isotropic () and anisotropic (Cμ and Dμ) hyperfine interactions in eqs 1 and 3. This is the only ALC resonance that can be seen in isotropic environments, where rotational averaging of the dipolar coupling terms occurs, exemplified by studies of the MuĊ6H6 radical in the gas (45) and liquid (46) phases. There is also a very weak/narrow ΔM = 2(Δ2) double-quantum resonance expected, which corresponds to a muon flip–flip between states |αeαμαp⟩ and |αeβμβp⟩, also arising only in the second order but from the anisotropic muon–electron hyperfine interaction only (terms Eμ and Fμ for muon and proton in eq 3). These contribute much less than Cμ and Dμ, as seen earlier in solid benzene (7,50,51,58) and in Figure 2 here as well. Since this is such a weak line, it is only the Δ0 and Δ1 resonances that are of interest in the present study.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Experimental ALC results for bulk solid benzene at 275 K: (a) showing the background magnetic field-dependent baseline (dashed line), fit to an eighth order polynomial, revealing strong Δ1 and Δ0 resonances at 19.1 and 21.1 kG, respectively, seen more clearly in part b, where this background has been subtracted. In both panels, the solid lines are Lorentzian fits to the data for the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances of eqs 6 and 7 below, respectively. There is also a very weak Δ2 signal at 18.2 kG, which was reproduced by a separate adjustment of the amplitude and width, since only the position could be fit. A better example of a complete fit to this weak line can be seen in ref (7).
The muon “asymmetry” is a measure of its residual polarization at the time of decay, determined in a LF from the difference in positron counts in “F’ and ‘B” directions with respect to the muon spin. In contrast to paper P1, here it is a time-integrated measurement, leading to the result (58)
(4)
for the time-averaged polarization of the Δ1 resonance, where
(5)
for a single crystal of orientation angle θ to the LF direction, and λ = λ′ + λ0 in μs–1, with λ′ the relaxation rate of the on-resonance signal into a different state off-resonance and λ0 = 0.45 μs–1, the inverse of the muon lifetime. This expression represents a polarization dip of Lorentzian shape for the Δ1 resonance (see Figures 1 and 2), with a HWHM of [(λ2 + q2)]1/2 and with its position depending on the orientation in the field. A similar result has been derived by Kiefl, (52,53) showing also the nature of the total relaxation rate on resonance. The ΔM = 0 (Δ0) line, a muon–proton spin flip-flop transition, also of Lorentzian line shape, but allowed only in second order, (54,58) is generally expected to be weaker than the first-order Δ1 line, as seen for the higher-field lines in Figures 1 and 2 with peak amplitudes that are specifically dependent on the widths in a particular environment.
The results for the D⊥ and D∥ components of an axial hyperfine interaction in eq 2 already imply the existence of some motional dynamics averaging a more generalized anisotropic hyperfine interaction. In addition, the present studies of the MuĊ6H6 radical have mainly been carried out in SBA-15 silica powder, giving rise to a superposition of resonant fields that correspond to different possible orientations of the angle dependence shown in eqs 3, since the hfcc for both the muon and nuclear spins are angle dependent. Such powder-averaged line shapes typically deviate from symmetric, (42,56−58) depending on the value of λ′ noted above, the degree of hyperfine anisotropy and on the angle of rotation either about the symmetry axis for an axial hyperfine tensor, D∥, or perpendicular to it, D⊥, from eq 2. See also Figure 3 in ref (56). We have not carried out such averages in the present work, but instead we have fit the experimental ALC signals seen in Figures 2–7 that follow to phenomenological Lorentzian line shapes, guided in part by eq 4 but mainly by the observation of their symmetric line shapes for both the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances. See also discussion in ref (7). It transpires that it is the amplitudes of these fitted lines that are most relevant here.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Background-corrected ALC scans for Bz on bare SBA-15 silica at two different loadings, 30 Torr (a) compared with 60 Torr Bz (b) at 300 K. These, and similar loadings that follow, were delivered as vapor from a “standard volume” (SV) vessel on the gas-handling system, explained in paper P1.
Figure 4
Figure 4. ALC plots for 30 Torr of added Bz from a SV (∼1.4 × 10–5 mol of Bz) on bare SBA-15 silica, taken from Figure 3 (a, red points and fitted line), contrasted with the same loading in an 8 nm AuNP/silica sample, also at 300 K (b, blue points and fitted line), corresponding to about 2–3 monolayers on the AuNP surface were they to be lying flat. See also caption to Figure 2. Note the much larger peak amplitudes in the bare silica (top) for both the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances at the lower and higher fields, respectively, compared to those in the AuNP sample, as well as the narrower Δ1 resonance seen on the AuNP surface compared to the silica. See entries in Table 1. Such spectra typically take about 2 h to accumulate.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Background-corrected ALC scans for a nominal monolayer (or, possibly, submonolayer; see P1) of 7.6 Torr Bz on an 8 nm AuNP/silica sample (a) at 300 K, compared with a loading of 30 Torr Bz (b), the same as seen in Figure 4. See caption to Figure 2. Note that the peak amplitudes are higher at the higher loading, and note as well that the sample morphologies are the same in both cases here.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Background-corrected ALC scans for a loading of 83 Torr Bz/SV on the 10 nm AuNP sample (a), corresponding to ∼5 monolayers, were they to be lying flat; (b) same as in part a but for a loading of 208 Torr. Both spectra were obtained at 305 K. Similar plots are seen for other loadings with results given in Table 1.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Comparison of background-corrected ALC scans near 300 K for a loading of 83 Torr Bz on the 10 nm AuNP sample (a, taken from Figure 6), with the same loading but scanned down to 4 kG (b), revealing no further resonances. Note the dramatic change in the x-axis scale for the field scan in this case (panel b). A similar outcome was found for a loading of 21.5 Torr Bz on this AuNP.
3. ALC Experimental Results
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Figure 2 shows an ALC spectrum for bulk solid benzene from the present study at 275 K. The upper panel (a) shows the “raw” data, exhibiting a field-dependent background arising from the effect of the magnetic field focusing the muon beam as well as affecting the positron trajectories. This was fit to an eighth order polynomial (red dashed line), as in all the cases that follow. Subtracting this background (b) shows the same two strong resonances expected from the schematic in Figure 1, a Δ1 line for the muon at ∼19 kG (Table 1) and a Δ0 for the proton at ∼21 kG. However, though bulk benzene forms a single crystal in the solid (7,51,58) that is not accounted for in the phenomenological fits shown in Figure 2. The ratios of peak amplitudes in Figure 2 just happen to be similar to those plotted in the schematic shown in Figure 1.
Table 1. Positions, Br, and hfcc Aμ and Ap, for the Δ1 Resonances of the MuĊ6H6 Radical, along with Their Peak Heights and Widths for Different Benzene Loadings, near 300 K
sample pressure (Torr)a Br (kG)b Aμ (MHz)c Ap (MHz)d peak height, Δ1e width, Δ1e (G)
SBA-15 + Bz 30 (∼14) 19.044 518.6 ± 0.2 127.2 ± 0.3 0.011 ± 0.001 740 ± 40
SBA-15 + Bz 60 (∼28) 19.029 518.2 ± 0.2 127.1 ± 0.2 0.019 ± 0.001 840 ± 34
solid Bz, 275 K – 19.172 522.1 ± 0.2 127.7 ± 0.2 0.055 ± 0.006 360 ± 8
8 nm AuNP + Bz 7.6 (∼3.5) 19.034 518.2 ± 0.5 126.1 ± 1.2 0.0028 ± 0.0010 670 ± 200
8 nm AuNP + Bz 15 (∼7.0) 19.029 518.2 ± 0.5 126.6 ± 0.7 0.0040 ± 0.0008 540 ± 60
8 nm AuNP + Bz 30 (∼14) 19.045 518.6 ± 0.4 126.8 ± 0.6 0.0044 ± 0.0006 480 ± 65
10 nm AuNP + Bz 21.5 (∼10) 19.058 519 ± 0.8 128.4 ± 1.2 0.0025 ± 0.0010 610 ± 220
10 nm AuNP + Bz 83 (∼38.5) 18.971 516.6 ± 0.4 126.6 ± 0.4 0.0072 ± 0.0010 720 ± 80
10 nm AuNP + Bz 115 (∼53.5) 18.966 516.5 ± 0.3 126.6 ± 0.3 0.0090 ± 0.0008 680 ± 56
10 nm AuNP + Bz 208 (∼96) 18.939 515.7 ± 0.3 125.8 ± 0.4 0.0106 ± 0.0011 760 ± 68
aPressure of added Bz from the SV of ∼8.7 mL, let into the previously evacuated target cell, as described in ref (5), paper P1. The corresponding estimated numbers of μmoles of loaded Bz are given in parentheses, also from P1.
bFitted positions at the field minima of the Δ1 resonances seen in Figures 2–7, errors ≲0.04 G.
cThe muon hfcc determined from the Δ1 resonances, eq 6.
dThe “ipso” proton hfcc determined from from the Δ0 resonances, eq 7.
eThe peak amplitudes and widths (fwhm) for the Δ1 resonances from the eighth order background polynomial fits shown. From a 10th order polynomial fit to the background, systematic errors expected to be ∼20% for the amplitudes and 10% for the widths.
The Δ0 resonances for MuĊ6H6 here are for the “ipso” proton at the C(6) site where the Mu atom adds to the ring. (45,46,58) Weaker Δ0 resonances for the ortho and para protons have been reported elsewhere, (7,45,46) but they are not explored here. Although certainly weak, as in the schematic of Figure 1, the Δ2 resonance can be seen at ∼18.2 kG in Figure 2 for solid Bz, first studied by Roduner, (51,58) and as part of a later study of the MuC6H6 radical in the zeolite “supercages” of NaY, HY, and USY zeolites in ref (7). Noteworthy from ref (7) is that, just above its melting point of 279 K, the Δ1 and Δ2 resonances disappear in bulk benzene due to the transition to the isotropic environment of the liquid. However, the Δ1 line remains clearly visible above the bulk benzene melting point in the silica mesopores of the SBA-15 samples in the present study (Figures 3–6), as was the case for MuĊ6H6 in the zeolite supercages of ref (7).
ALC results for bare SBA-15 silica are shown in Figure 3 at a loading of 30 Torr benzene (a), compared with a 60 Torr benzene (Bz) loading (b). The positions of both the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances and hence their hfcc are essentially the same as those in solid benzene (Figure 2). Noteworthy are the amplitudes of the ALC signals seen here, as measured by their peak intensities, which qualitatively scale linearly with Bz loading (Table 1, Figure 9 below), and which are much larger than those seen in the AuNP/silica samples. In a previous study of MuĊ6H6 in the siliceous zeolites, HY and USY, (7) it was assumed that the muoniated radical was weakly interacting with hydroxyl (−OH) groups in the zeolite supercages. That is also expected to be mainly the case in the SBA-15 silica here, consistent with the elemental analysis discussed in paper P1. In the more restricted environment of these silica mesopores, surface roughness (61,62) on the walls may also be playing some role, serving as trapping sites for either the AuNPs or added Bz. Even so, we would not expect any appreciable differences in hfcc for MuĊ6H6, in accord with the two distinct ALC resonances consistently seen (Figures 3–6).
At a representative loading of 100 Torr Bz (Table 1), there are ∼5 × 1018 Bz molecules in the sample cell, compared to ∼1022 possible SiO2/SiOH binding sites in either the bare silica or AuNP/silica samples, so some 2 × 103 more silica sites than Bz molecules at such loadings. There is little chance then of multiple benzenes at a silica site, in contrast to the case for the 8 and 10 nm AuNPs, where there are only ∼1016 NP sites present (see paper P1). Given that there are many more silica binding sites than Bz molecules, a linear dependence on Bz loading for MuĊ6H6 formation at these sites would be expected, as seen in Figure 9 below. The large ALC amplitudes for the bare silica seen in Figure 3 also indicate that the added benzene is well distributed throughout the silica sample volume.
The ALC results for 30 Torr Bz in the bare SBA-15 silica from Figure 3 are compared with the same loading in the 8 nm AuNP/silica sample in Figure 4. Both environments show the same two strong resonances for MuĊ6H6 at essentially the same positions as in bulk benzene (Figure 2) and bare silica (Figure 3), and thus exhibit the same hfcc (Table 1), a result seen throughout this work. This insensitivity of muon hfcc to binding sites is a well-known result from past studies of MuĊ6H6 in different environments, (7,13,41,42,45,46) testifying to its generally weak interaction in these environments, including Comment/Request: please do not split up the formula for MuC6H6 at the end of the line above with the AuNPs herein. Thus, the measured hfcc (Aμ and Ap in Table 1) also do not differ by much more than 1% from previously established values, reflecting the resonance stability arising from electron delocalization via C═C bond conjugation in both the precursor Bz and the muoniated radical formed in (R1).
In Figure 4, though the hfcc for MuĊ6H6 do not differ between the bare silica and 8 nm AuNP/silica sample, there are differences in both the widths and particularly in the peak amplitudes, as shown for the Δ1 resonances from all scans listed in Table 1. Thus, while the Δ1 resonance for MuĊ6H6 in the AuNP sample (Figure 4b) is somewhat broader than in the bulk (Figure 2), this broadening is seen much more dramatically in the bare silica (Figure 4a), which is twice as broad as in the bulk or in this 8 nm AuNP sample, indicative of a weaker interaction energy between MuĊ6H6 at silica sites than at AuNP sites, in accord as well with the measured relaxation rates, λMu, in paper P1. This led to our proposal in P1, and supported herein, that the added Bz and hence the MuĊ6H6 radical was primarily located on the AuNPs, not at the vastly more abundant silica sites in the AuNP/silica samples, due to the expected stronger BE of Bz to the AuNPs. The weaker interaction energy of MuĊ6H6 with mainly −OH sites in the bare silica could give rise to more motion of the free radical at those sites, possibly sampling then extended regions of hyperfine anisotropy (25) and thus contributing to the increased line broadening noted. It is noteworthy here as well that, were MuĊ6H6 located at silica sites in the AuNP/silica sample, we would expect to see widths similar to those in Figure 4a), contrary to observation in Figure 4b). See also Figure 8 below.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Comparison of a bare SBA-15 sample at a high Bz loading of ∼10–4 moles of Bz at 418 K (a) with the same loading on a 30 nm AuNP in a AuNP/silica sample at 418 K (b). Adapted from ref (11). For reference, the highest loading in the present study (Table 1) is comparable. Note the loss of the Δ1 resonance in the upper scan for the bare silica, but which, though highly broadened, is still clearly seen in the fit for the AuNP data in part b.
The ∼1022 possible SiO2/SiOH binding sites in either the bare silica or AuNP/silica samples are also some 106 times larger than the number of AuNP sites estimated in P1, in accord with multiple benzenes expected to be present at these sites, and hence with the reduced amplitudes of the ALC signals seen for the 8 nm AuNP/silica sample in Figure 4 compared to the bare silica. The peak heights for both resonances (listed for the Δ1 in Table 1), are about 3 times less for the AuNP sample at this 30 Torr Bz loading, likely due to the formation of diamagnetic final states on the AuNP surfaces, (3,5) for which there is no clear route were MuĊ6H6 located at SiO2/SiOH sites. Were Bz to be located at silica sites in the AuNP/silica samples, little or no difference in ALC amplitudes would be expected, contrary to the observation in Figure 4.
Though hyperfine anisotropy, molecular reorientation, and powder-averages can give rise to asymmetric ALC line shapes for muoniated free radicals, from which their molecular dynamics can be assessed, (17,22,42,51,54,56,57,63) the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances seen here are well described by the phenomenological/symmetric Lorentzian fits shown in Figures 2–7, giving the field positions Br(Δ1) and Br(Δ0). These in turn give the isotropic hfcc, Aμ for the muon, from the minimum of the Δ1 resonance, and Ap for the proton from the Δ0 resonance, found from eqs 6 and 7, respectively:
(6)
(7)
with the gyromagnetic ratios γμ = 0.01355 MHz/G and γe = 2.8025 MHz/G. The reduced denominator in the first term of eq 7 indicates that the position of the Δ0 resonance will typically be above the Δ1 for most organic free radicals, seen in the schematic of Figure 1 and in all the experimental ALC plots for MuĊ6H6 here and elsewhere. (7,42,45,46,58) In both eqs 6 and 7, the first terms arise from the crossing of the energies shown in Figure 1, but which are avoided in the presence of hyperfine anisotropy, (22,52−54,56,58) due to off-diagonal matrix elements in the Hamiltonian of eq 1. It follows then that the very observation of a Δ1 resonance here means that the MuĊ6H6 radical cannot be isotropically rotating within the SBA-15 mesopores, but rather its motion is rotationally hindered due to being localized at specific binding sites. This may be the case as well in a recent neutron scattering study of Bz located in the mesopores of MCM-41 silica, (64) recognizing that the pore sizes of ∼1.8 nm are much smaller than those of interest here in SBA-15 silica.
It should be noted that there is a difference in the measurement time scales involved in our earlier P1 paper and for the ALC results here. In the weak TF-μSR study of P1, the spin-dephasing relaxation (λMu) of Mu with surface-adsorbed Bz on the AuNPs in the mesopores had to be fast compared to other spin-relaxation effects, and notably faster than electron spin-exchange (SE) due to paramagnetic impurities or “dangling bonds” arising from the synthesis procedure. It was also pointed out in P1 that differences in sample morphology could affect the volume of the mesopores differently for the bare silica and AuNP/silica samples, giving different concentrations of benzene, which could then directly affect the measured relaxation rates, λMu, in P1.
In an ALC experiment though, carried out in high LFs, there is no coherent spin precession and hence no dephasing. There is no SE for Mu on the MHz time scale seen in paper P1 either, since at the high LFs utilized to give the ALC signals of interest here, any such SE would be completely quenched; hence the amplitudes of the ALC signals can develop over the much longer 2.2 μs lifetime of the muon. Thus, λMu, due to the chemical addition rate described by (R1), need only be for the HWHM in eq 4 in order to guarantee a large transfer of the muon polarization to the radical. From the entries for the widths of the AuNP/silica samples in Table 1 below, though not single crystal environments, this condition would appear to be, by and large, well satisfied, so any differences in sample morphology on the ALC amplitudes for the AuNP samples in the present study are expected to be of less concern than was the case for the reaction rates discussed in P1.
There is another important aspect here, relating to the resonance stability of the cyclohexadienyl radical. Though the measured muon hfcc, Aμ, for MuĊ6H6 in a variety of different environments (7,17,45,46,58) are all within about 1% at a given temperature, seen also here from the results in Table 1, that was not the case for MuĊ6H6 in NaY zeolite, which strongly interacts with the Na+ cations, (7) markedly distorting the cyclohexadienyl radical from its normal planar geometry, causing 20% shifts in Aμ for inequivalent C–Mu bond orientations, above (“exo”, + 20%) and below (“endo”, −20%) the plane. In contrast, MuĊ6H6 in the siliceous zeolites, USY and HY, in the same study, interacts only weakly with mainly framework −OH groups, leaving a largely planar radical with values for Aμ that are again within ∼1% of those seen in bulk benzene. (7) That is the case in the ALC study here as well, comparing solid benzene (Figure 2), bare silica (Figure 3), and the AuNP/silica samples (Figures 4–6), in accord also with the analysis in P1, where Bz was also found to be weakly interacting with the AuNPs. The muon hfcc do not then provide any indication of site location for the MuĊ6H6 radical between SiO2 and AuNP sites in the present study, in contrast to their peak amplitudes discussed below.
Since there are ∼2 × 103 more SiO2 sites than benzenes at typical loadings, there are also then some 103 times fewer AuNPs than benzene molecules; hence, several benzenes can be accommodated at AuNP sites given that a typical size for a benzene molecule is ∼0.5 nm, much less than the AuNP size. Benzene consequently adopts a canted orientation on the AuNP surface, explaining the linear dependence of λMu on [Bz] seen in P1. This also facilitates Mu reactivity with bare AuNP sites forming diamagnetic final states (3,5) due to its chemisorption at these sites, as a possible probe of surface magnetism, in sync with a more recent paper elsewhere. (65)
Figure 5 compares ALC spectra for MuĊ6H6 on the 8 nm AuNP at an expected monolayer loading of 7.6 Torr Bz (a) with the 30 Torr Bz loading from Figure 4 (b), while Figure 6 compares results for two higher Bz loadings in the 10 nm AuNP/silica sample. These spectra show the same two strong Δ1 and Δ0 resonances in both environments, as in Figures 2–4, hence with the same hfcc (Table 1). The peak amplitudes of both resonances are consistently lower though at the lower loadings. That the Δ1 resonances are clearly visible near 300 K in both the silica and AuNP environments (Figures 3–7), in contrast to bulk benzene at temperatures just above its melting point, (7) could be indicating an effect of the constricted environments of the silica mesopores on the melting points and dynamics of benzene and the MuĊ6H6 radical within these mesopores. (47,66−70)
Though the positions of these ALC resonances are insensitive to MuĊ6H6 binding sites, their amplitudes are not. Even at the higher loading of 83 Torr in Figure 6a, compared to the similar loading of 60 Torr in bare silica in Figure 3b, the peak amplitudes in the silica are still almost 3 times higher, indicating a chemisorption reaction of Mu with the AuNPs forming a diamagnetic final state, (3,5) thus reducing the ALC amplitudes seen. There is a difference in the widths on the 8 nm AuNP at 30 Torr Bz in Figure 5b, which is narrower than for both the 10 nm AuNP and the bare silica at comparable loadings (Figure 3a, Table 1), indicating a stronger BE for MuĊ6H6 to the smaller AuNP. Both the differences in widths and peak amplitudes seen for the ALC resonances in Figures 5 and 6, and given in Table 1, compared to those in bare silica, support the claim herein (and for benzene in P1) that the MuĊ6H6 radical is indeed weakly interacting with AuNP sites, and is not located at silica sites in these AuNP/silica samples.
Were that not the case, and the MuĊ6H6 radical was strongly interacting with the AuNPs, additional delocalization of the unpaired electron compared to that for an isolated radical in the bulk (7,13) would be expected to give rise to a reduced overlap with the muon in the C–Mu bond of the radical and hence to a reduced muon hfcc, Aμ, meaning a shift in the positions of both the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances to lower fields. This prompted ALC studies down to 4 kG (and below), seeking evidence for such a possibly reduced hfcc, as shown by the scan in Figure 7b. However, no additional resonances were seen, in accord with the view herein and in P1 that benzene, canted on the surface and the MuĊ6H6 radical so formed in (R1), interacts only weakly with the AuNP surfaces, expected as well from the general stability of this muoniated radical.
Figure 8 shows results for the MuĊ6H6 ALC resonances from a separate study (11) on a 30 nm AuNP at a relatively high Bz loading of ∼10–4 mol at a temperature of 418 K, compared with the same loading on a bare SBA-15 silica sample. The Δ1 resonance on the AuNP, though highly broadened due to the desorption and molecular motion of MuĊ6H6, is still clearly visible in the lower scan (b), but for the bare SBA-15 sample, this resonance has broadened to such an extent that it has disappeared into the background (a), an outcome seen also at lower temperatures. (11) The clear difference seen in the ALC peak heights between the bare silica and AuNP samples at 418 K in Figure 8 echoes the claim above that the MuĊ6H6 radical is preferentially interacting with the AuNPs as opposed to being located at silica sites in these Au/SBA-15 samples; otherwise there would be no difference seen in these spectra.
4. Discussion: Mechanisms and the MuĊ6H6 Final State
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The reaction of Mu to form the MuĊ6H6 radical causes a relaxation rate of the Mu precession signal, λMu, that was studied on both bare silica and AuNP/silica samples of different NP sizes in P1. There are only two distinct sites for the location of this radical: at bare silica sites or at AuNP sites. Since the BE of Bz is expected to be stronger to AuNPs than to SiO2/SiOH sites, despite their greater number, it was reasonable to propose (P1) that most of the added benzene would be located on the AuNPs, giving rise to a linear dependence of λMu on [Bz], in accord with the Eley–Rideal model of surface reactivity discussed in P1. Such a dependence is in marked contrast to an asymptotic trend that would have been the case were Bz, at multilayer loadings, lying flat on the NP surface, like “stacked dinner plates” due to π-stacking interactions. (5,71) This linear dependence seen for λMu in paper P1 resulted from the weak interaction of Bz with the AuNPs and its canted orientation on the NP surfaces, allowing for many more bare AuNP sites as well as more Bz surface-adsorbed sites for Mu to react with than would have been the case were Bz lying flat. Still, one cannot exclude the possibility that some Bz and hence some MuĊ6H6 radicals could also be located at silica sites, in the face of the uncertainties in sample morphologies discussed in P1.
It is worthwhile to briefly review here what led us to propose this canted orientation of benzene on the AuNPs in P1. On a planar metal surface, and in particular for Bz on a Cu(110) surface (72) discussed in P1, the BE of Bz to the metal was believed to be stonger than to a AuNP surface, thus forming a monolayer lying flat on the metal surface; but that is not necessarilly the case for the AuNP surface. Lee et al. (72) showed that successive Bz multilayers on the Cu(110) surface were oriented on an initial monolayer in an “edge-on” geometry, which we suggested could also be the case for Bz at some “canting” angle to the AuNP surface in P1. However, not as multilayer loadings but more likely as individual benzenes (or perhaps small clusters) on the AuNP surface, given their expected weaker BE compared to an extended metal surface and the constricted geometry of the SBA-15 mesopores; in accord as well with the observed linear dependence on Bz concentration seen in the relaxation rates λMu in P1. (Such a canting effect has also been reported in ref (64) for benzene encapsulated in the even more restricted pores of MCM-41 silica.)
A canted Bz precursor on the AuNPs is also presumed to give similarly oriented MuĊ6H6 radicals on the AuNP surface from (R1), each one behaving in like manner to its neighbor, in accord with the similar positions for the ALC resonances seen in Figures 4–6 and hence with the similar values for the hfcc found (Table 1); also a consequence of the resonance stability of the Bz precursor and the MuĊ6H6 radical that is formed, both weakly interacting with the AuNP surfaces.
Electron SE, mentioned above, requires additional comment here. This was explored in P1 as a competitive process contributing to λMu, along with the dephasing caused by the chemisorption reaction of Mu forming a diamagnetic final state on the AuNP surfaces. (3,5) This SE effect was not seen in all AuNP samples though and moreover was quenched in moderate longitudinal magnetic fields, indicative of “slow SE” due to paramagnetic impurities arising from the synthesis processes in making the AuNP/silica samples. On the other hand, were this to have happened on a much faster time scale for the MuĊ6H6 radical in contact with the AuNP surface, a strong damping of the muon polarization in the final state would have been seen, leading to excessive broadening of the ALC lines. (56) Since this is not observed (Table 1), we propose that the unpaired electron of the muoniated cyclohexadienyl radical is not in direct contact with the metal surface. Such a fast relaxation effect is seen in ref (18) though, on the interaction of stable nitroxyl radicals with AuNPs in solution, giving no EPR signals, attributed to rapid SE of the unpaired radical electron in contact with the conduction electrons on the AuNP surface.
The μSR technique utilized to establish the linear dependence of λMu on [Bz] seen in P1 was sensitive only to the initial state of the system in reaction (R1). This did suggest though that a similar dependence could be expected for the amplitudes of the ALC resonances for the final free radical MuĊ6H6 state formed, since this could be expected to scale qualitatively with λMu. However, that was found to not be the case, as the results for the peak amplitudes of the Δ1 resonances for the AuNP samples listed in Table 1 and plotted vs Bz loading in Figure 9 clearly show, particularly for the 10 nm AuNP/silica sample which covers the widest range of Bz loading. Similar trends were seen for the Δ0 resonances.
Figure 9
Figure 9. ALC peak heights for the Δ1 resonances for the bare SBA-15 silica (red points and linear fit), 8 nm AuNP (green points and linear fit) and 10 nm AuNP blue points and linear fit) vs the SV pressure of added benzene from Table 1. See footnote e in Table 1. The cyan-line is a fit to an asymptotic dependence for the 10 nm AuNP, from eq 8 in the text. It is noted that this trend is not predicated on the data point at the highest Bz pressure of 208 Torr. All data were obtained at 300 K.
It is worth echoing an earlier point here that, though the ALC peak positions (and hence hfcc) in Table 1 do not change with Bz loading, their peak intensities do change, and quite dramatically so in comparison with those for the bare silica, by as much as a factor of 10 at an (extrapolated) loading of 250 Torr in Figure 9. A similar trend is seen for the 8 nm AuNP size up to lower loadings (green points). For both of these cases the dependence on the added Bz pressure was measured in the same sample cell for the same beam conditions, thereby minimizing possible systematic variations in the measured ALC amplitudes due to different muon beam-spot sizes or stopping distributions. As noted earlier (footnote e, Table 1), these amplitudes are relatively insensitive to changes in polynomial background fits. The changes in intensity seen in the ALC signals for the AuNP/silica samples in Figure 9 are thought to be due to the formation of hidden diamagnetic final states, either from Mu reacting with bare AuNP surfaces, (3,5) in competition with MuĊ6H6 formation, expanded on in (R2) below, or possibly via a rapid transfer of the unpaired electron of the radical from the intermediate MuĊ6 state to the metal surface, leaving a diamagnetic final state, explored in (R3) below.
It is remarked that, if an initial monolayer of Bz were formed, lying flat on the AuNP surface, as suggested early on in ref (11), such a layer could shield the underlying metal from subsequent benzenes, which would then interact via Bz···Bz physisorption as opposed to Bz···AuNP chemisorption, also giving then hfcc that would not change with Bz loading. However, such a model would give as well no change in ALC amplitudes with Bz loading, contradicting the change seen in Figure 9 as well as the linear dependence seen for λMu on [Bz] in P1.
For MuĊ6H6 bound at silica sites in the bare SBA-15 silica (red line) in Figure 9, there are only two data points, but the intercept at [Bz] = 0 also determines the fit, which does seem then to be clearly linear, as assumed in Figure 9. Since there are ∼106 times more SiO2 than AuNP sites, a similar linear dependence as seen by the red line would be expected were MuĊ6H6 located at SiO2 sites in the 8 and 10 nm AuNP/silica samples. Linear fits to these data are shown by the green and blue lines, respectively, both having much shallower slopes than seen for the bare silica. Though this linear fit for the 8 nm AuNP sample could be deemed satisfactory, given the few closely spaced data points, the linear fit for the 10 nm AuNP, indicating an even shallower slope, fails completely to account for the trend seen in the Δ1 amplitudes, given also that this covers ten times the range in Bz loading. These observations provide additional support for our claim herein (and in P1) that the added Bz is mainly located on/at the AuNPs.
The extended trend for the 10 nm AuNP/silica data in Figure 9 indicates an asymptotic dependence, which can be described by the phenomenological expression
(8)
similar to that explored in P1 (see Figure 10 therein), with parameters A1, A2, and A3, shown by the cyan-fitted line to the 10 nm AuNP data in Figure 9, giving a much better fit than a linear dependence. The pressure P here is given in Torr, and the values of the fitted parameters are 1.0 × 10–4, 3.2 × 10–3 ,and 20.9 Torr for A1, A2 and A3, respectively, the latter indicating the onset of quite a strong damping of the amplitude even at low pressures. (The constant factor of 0.2 in the denominator of eq 8 is fixed, given the few data points; choosing a similar but different value made little or no difference in the fit.) Though not shown, eq 8 also gives a better fit to the 8 nm AuNP/silica data than the linear (green line) fit shown, despite its more closely spaced data points.
There are only a few reports relating to metal NP stability, catalytic activity and energy transfer with surface-adsorbed molecules in general (20,67,73−76) and for the interaction of free radicals with bulk metal or metal NP surfaces in particular. As noted above, an ESR study of a stable nitroxyl radical in contact with gold NPs in solution showed no signal, (18) attributed to rapid SE between its unpaired electron and the electrons on the NP surface, though this could also be interpreted as due to a rapid loss of that unpaired electron to the metal. Earlier examples are that of Carley et al., who detected the hydrogenated radicals HCH2ĊH2 and HĊ6H6 on a silica-supported Pd catalyst by ESR, (16) and by Schwager et al. for the MuĊ6H6 radical in the same system, (13) commented on further below. The cyclohexadienyl (HĊ6H6) radical was also detected by ESR in MCM-41 zeolite due to H-atom addition to benzene. (15)
Since the asymptotic trend seen in Figure 9 for the peak heights of the Δ1 resonances on the AuNPs is thought to be due to the underlying formation of unobserved diamagnetic final states, (3,5) we seek mechanisms in accord with that view, going beyond the basic reaction scheme of (R1) above. The most straightforward extension for this is given by (R2), reflecting as well the theme of recent results reported elsewhere. (65) Thus, in competition with MuĊ6H6 formation,
(R2)
where, as in (R1), a stabilized MuĊ6H6 radical could be formed on the AuNP surface (with the ↑ indicating its canted orientation (not to be confused with the use of this same arrow to indicate the direction of the muon spin in P1), with branching ratio “f”, and Mu···AuNP signifies the formation of a diamagnetic final state, determined by the rate constant kC, in a similar manner here to that for chemisorbed Mu. (3,5) While it cannot be ruled out that some MuĊ6H6 might also be localized at bare silica sites, in that case though there would be no clear mechanism for the formation of diamagnetic final states. With increasing Bz loading, there are fewer bare AuNP sites and thus f → 1, as seen by the cyan-line fit to the 10 nm AuNP data in Figure 9.
The ALC signals shown in Figure 5 for the 8 nm AuNP/silica sample are instructive here. Panel a shows results for a nominal monolayer loading (or less) of 7.6 Torr Bz. Taken at face value, this raises an important question: why are there any ALC signals seen at all at such a low loading on this metal NP surface? One would expect the MuĊ6H6 radical, if in direct contact with the metal NP, to either rapidly lose its unpaired electron to the metal, giving then an anticipated 100% diamagnetic signal from both the final state that would be formed, in concert with Mu···AuNP in (R2), or to undergo rapid SE (55,56) with the surface electrons, likely leading to complete depolarization of the muon spin and hence no ALC signal at all.
That there are clear ALC signals seen for MuĊ6H6 at this low loading suggests two possible outcomes: (i) either the radical is located at bare silica sites, which would run counter to previous arguments and to the trend seen in Figure 9, or (ii) that the unpaired electron of the radical is not in direct contact with the metal surface. We are inclined to the latter view, based as well on the widths of the Δ1 resonances given in Table 1 for all the AuNPs studied herein. If the radical electron were in direct contact with the metal surface, any ALC signal should be much broader than on the bare silica, if observed at all, again contrary to observation.
It is also worth pointing out here that the aforementioned ESR detection of spin-trapped HĊ6H6 on a Pd catalyst, encapsulated in silica and alumina environments in ref (16), demonstrated that the unpaired electron is stable on the radical over the lifetime of the ESR measurement in these oxides. Could this be suggesting that Pd is less metallic in such environments? If so, could that also be the case for the AuNPs encapsulated in SBA-15 silica herein? It is known that finite size effects can alter the density of states for electron energy levels at lower temperatures compared to the band structure seen in bulk metal at higher temperatures. (77,78) Could something similar be at play here? In addition, could the efficacy of a nominally expected transfer of the unpaired electron from the radical to the AuNP surface depend on the geometry of the radical, given its canted orientation on the surface established in P1, thereby affecting its interaction with that surface?
These are complex systems that lead to alternate suggestions for possible reaction mechanisms. Thus, partly in response to the questions raised above as well as to address the likely possibility mentioned earlier that the unpaired electron on the MuĊ6H6 radical is not in contact with the metal surface in this study, an alternate mechanism to (R2) is proposed in (R3), in which the intermediate MuĊ6 state from (R1, R2) on the AuNP surface undergoes an electron transfer from the radical prior to forming stabilized MuĊ6H6, as in
(R3)
where f has the same meaning as in (R2), here in competition with electron transfer from MuĊ6 to the metal surface, with rate constant kE. Such a mechanism would imply that electron transfer is facilitated by thermal excitation populating low-lying vibrational states in MuĊ6H6, also addressed in a different context in ref (79), but here giving the diamagnetic final state previewed above. This process might also be influenced by plasmon excitation on these metal NPs, arising via this energy transfer process on the gold NP surfaces, (80) also thought to play a role in macro and mesoporous silica supports for silver NP catalysts. (10)
Coment: Eqns are now correct, including (R3) above. Common to these proposed mechanisms, starting with the basic scheme in (R1), is the formation of a stabilized MuĊ6H6 radical on the AuNP metal surface. This premise only recasts a basic question raised earlier though. Why doesn’t this stabilized MuĊ6H6 radical also not lose its unpaired electron to the metal NP surface or give rise to rapid electron SE with the surface electrons, leading to overly broad signals that would likely escape detection? We suggest that this may be due to the geometry of the MuĊ6H6 radical on the surface and how strongly bound it is to that surface, both of which relate to earlier studies of muoniated cyclohexadienyl (7) and of the Mu-t-butyl radical (81) in NaY zeolite.
In ref (7), the MuĊ6H6 radical was found to be strongly interacting with Na+ sites in NaY, giving rise to a marked distortion of its normal planar geometry and hence to two Δ1 resonances from inequivalent C–Mu bond orientations, above (exo) and below (endo) the plane, with dramatically different muon hfcc of ±20%, respectively. Given this strong interaction, a Δ0 resonance due to electron charge density transferred from the radical to the cation was expected, (7,17,82) but, surprisingly, not observed, (7) suggesting that this geometric distortion mitigates against electron transfer from MuĊ6H6 to the Na+. Somewhat counterintuitively though, such a transfer was seen though for the Mu-t-butyl radical in NaY, (81) even given its weaker interaction with the Na cations, inferred by the observation of only a single Δ1 resonance. These contrasting results suggest a subtle interplay between the geometry of the stabilized MuC6H6 radical in (R2) and (R3) and the likelihood of electron transfer to the AuNP surface.
We propose then that the canted orientation of the MuĊ6H6 radical on the AuNPs, discussed in P1 and outlined above, may have a similar effect as that seen due to its geometric distortion from planarity in NaY, (7) possibly leading to a shift in electron density in the ring of the muoniated cyclohexadienyl radical, while largely preserving its resonance stability on that surface. Though ion-dipole forces are involved in the case of MuĊ6H6 interacting with Na cations in NaY, in contrast to the present study of this neutral radical interacting with a neutral metal NP surface, that is also the case for the Mu-t-butyl radical interacting with NaY, where clear Δ0 resonances were observed, arising from this electron charge transfer. (81) Though the nature of these interactions are bound to differ, given their differences in molecular structure and geometry, there does indeed seem to be grounds for postulating a subtle interplay here between the geometry and localized charge density of the MuĊ6H6 radical in its interaction with the AuNP surface, with the surface electrons surely playing a role as well.
The only other ALC study similar to the present one that we know of is the paper of Schwager et al., (13) in which benzene was added to nonporous 7 nm Cabosil silica grains that supported PdNPs of a similar size as the AuNPs studied here, somewhat in parallel then with the ESR study of Carley et al. (16) discussed above. In the μSR study of ref (13), the Mu atom, formed within the silica grains, diffuses into the voids between grains, first explored by Marshall et al., (83) where it could react with benzene adsorbed on the external surface, as in (R1), with the MuĊ6H6 radical formed then expected to diffuse on the surface to a PdNP. The Δ0 resonances seen in ref (13) showed a clear reduction in amplitude in the Pd-loaded sample compared to bare silica, by about 50%, similar to that seen at comparable benzene loadings on the bare silica and AuNPs in Table 1 here. This was attributed in ref (13) to a “sink” for Mu atoms reacting with the Pd metal prior to reaching the surface-adsorbed Bz, in like manner to chemisorbed Mu on the AuNPs forming diamagnetic muon states on the surface, explored in refs (3) and (5) herein.
In ref (13), it was concluded that the diffusion rate of the MuC6H6 radical on the Cabosil surface was too slow to reach a PdNP on the μs time scale of the muon lifetime. Were that to happen, given that the BE of Bz to Pd is much stronger than to Au, one would certainly expect to see a shift in resonance positions to lower fields, commented on in ref (13) and above with respect to Figure 7 here. In the present work, we can be quite confident that the Mu atom reacts with surface-adsorbed Bz on the AuNPs, since both the NPs and the benzene are located in the same mesopores that the Mu atom diffuses into and out of. An important difference here, as well, is that Bz appears to be only weakly adsorbed to the AuNP surface, thereby preserving the resonance stability of the MuĊ6H6 radical formed. Beyond noting these differences though, it is difficult to realistically compare the current results in mesoporous silica for different AuNPs and over a range of Bz loadings, wherein the Mu atom diffuses within mesopores encountering Bz/AuNPs therein, with those of ref (13), where the MuC6H6 radical diffuses on the external surface of the 7 nm Cabosil silica grain. For smaller-sized Cabosil grains, closer to about 3.5 nm, where Mu diffusion into the voids is much more facile, (83) and for the same metal NPs, one could expect the results for porous and nonporous silica to be more directly comparable.
5. Concluding Remarks
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
There are several important points arising from this study, that also resonate with our earlier report of reaction rates in paper P1 (ref (5)), summarized in Table 1 and plotted in Figure 9, as itemized below:
The muonium atom (Mu = μ+e–), formed in the grains of the SBA-15 silica samples, thermalizes in the silica mesopores, where the encapsulated AuNPs and added benzene (Bz) reactant are also located.
Mu then reacts primarily with surface-adsorbed Bz on these AuNPs (or with Bz at SiO2 sites in bare silica) in the silica mesopores, forming the muoniated free radical, MuĊ6H6, identified by the μSR technique of avoided level crossing resonance.
As in P1, it is proposed that the MuĊ6H6 radical, formed in reaction schemes (R1)–(R3) from surface-adsorbed Bz on the AuNPs, remains canted on and weakly interacting with the AuNP surface, thus giving rise to ALC resonance positions and hence hfcc that do not change with environment or Bz loading. This is in accord with previously established results of the resonance stability of muoniated cyclohexadienyl in a variety of different environments.
The Δ1(Aμ) and Δ0 (Ap) ALC resonances on these AuNPs are seen at LFs of ∼19 and 21 kG, respectively. There is no evidence for any additional ALC resonances at lower fields (Figure 7), which would have been the case if the unpaired electron on the MuĊ6H6 radical were further delocalized due to a strong binding with the AuNP surface.
The positions of these ALC resonances do not distinguish the binding sites of MuĊ6H6 at either SiO2 or AuNP sites in these AuNP/silica samples, but their peak intensities arguably do provide this distinction, revealing as much as a 10-fold loss in amplitude for MuĊ6H6 formed at AuNP sites across the full range of Bz loadings up to 250 Torr in Figure 9, compared to the results for bare silica. This strongly suggests that the benzene in these AuNP/silica samples is primarily located on/at the AuNPs and not at the many more plentiful silica sites. See also Figure 8.
Though preference for MuĊ6H6 interacting with AuNP sites is established, the possibility that this radical could also be located at SiO2 sites in the AuNP/silica samples cannot be ruled out.
A key question raised herein is why is the MuĊ6H6 radical seen at all on these metal AuNP surfaces? Common wisdom would suggest that any radical, if in contact with the metal NP surface, would either quickly lose its unpaired electron to that surface or rapid SE of this electron with the conduction electrons on the metal surface would give rise to a fully depolarized muoniated radical.
This led to our supposition that the canted orientation of the MuĊ6H6 radical on these AuNPs leads to a shift in electron charge density, such that the unpaired electron is not in direct contact with the metal surface, mandating accurate quantum chemistry calculations to verify. Further studies on different metal NPs, including those that are magnetic, would also be helpful here.
Both this paper and its predecessor (P1) relate to the role played by free radical intermediates in heterogeneous catalysis in silica environments, and in particular here in mesoporous SBA-15 silica. These environments are generally important in such catalysis processes due to their likelihood of facilitating proton or H-atom transfer reactions, forming a true free-radical intermediate state that is expected to play a role in a complex catalytic sequence of fundamental reaction steps in these environments. It is this context that provided motivation for the present study of the isotopic hydrogenic Mu atom in studying the specific reaction step forming Mu-adduct cyclohexadienyl radicals analogous to HĊ6H6 in mesoporous (SBA-15) silica. Though ESR would generally be the technique of choice for such H-atom studies, its efficacy can be highly compromised due to radical–radical recombination reactions in the constricted spaces of the silica mesopores.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Donald G. Fleming - TRIUMF and Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC Canada, V6T1Z1;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6552-7044;  Email: flem@triumf.ca
Authors
William A. MacFarlane - TRIUMF and Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC Canada, V6T1Z1
Jiyu Xiao - TRIUMF and Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC Canada, V6T1Z1
Donald J. Arseneau - CMMS Facility, TRIUMF, 4004 Wesbrook Avenue, Vancouver, BC Canada, V6T2A3
Robert F. Kiefl - TRIUMF and Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC Canada, V6T1Z1
Yuanyuan Cao - School of Materials Science and Engineering, East China University of Science & Technology, Shanghai 200237, China
Peixi-X Wang - Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou,Jiangsu 215123, P. R. China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0683-4818
Mark J. MacLachlan - Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T1Z1, Canada;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3546-7132
Michael D. Bridges - Jules Stein Eye Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, United States
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgments
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
D.G.F., W.A.M., R.F.K., and M.J.M. gratefully acknowledge the financial support of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). The help of Mr. Martin Dehn in the data taking was also greatly appreciated.
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 83 other publications.
1Daniel, M. C.; Astruc, D. Gold Nanoparticles: Assembly, Supramolecular Chemistry, Quantum-Size-Related Properties, and Applications toward Biology, Catalysis, and Nanotechnology. Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 293– 346,  DOI: 10.1021/cr030698+ [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
2Nealon, G. J.; Donnio, B.; Greget, R.; Kappler, J.-P.; Terazzi, E.; Gallani, J.-L. Magnetism in gold nanoparticles. Nanoscale 2012, 4, 5244– 5258,  DOI: 10.1039/c2nr30640a [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
3Dehn, D. H.; Arseneau, D. J.; Böni, P.; Bridges, M. D.; Buck, T.; Cortie, D. L.; Fleming, D. G.; Kelly, J. A.; MacFarlane, W. A.; MacLachlan, M. J. Communication: Chemisorption of muonium on gold nanoparticles: A sensitive new probe of surface magnetism and reactivity. Communication. J. Chem. Phys. 2016, 145, 181102– 5,  DOI: 10.1063/1.4967460 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
4Dehn, M. H.; Arseneau, D. J.; Buck, T.; Cortie, D. L.; Fleming, D. G.; MacFarlane, W. A.; King, S. R.; McDonagh, A. M.; McFadden, R. M. L.; Mitchell, D. R. G.; Kiefl, R. F. Nature of magnetism in thiol-capped gold nanoparticles investigated with Muon spin rotation. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2018, 112, 053105,  DOI: 10.1063/1.5017768 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
5Fleming, D. G.; MacFarlane, W. A.; Xiao, J.; Arseneau, D. J.; Dehn, M. H.; Kiefl, R. F.; Zamarion, V. M.; Wang, P. X.; Cao, Y.; MacLachlan, M. J.; Bridges, M. D. Studies of Muonium Reactivity with Uncapped Gold Nanoparticles and with Surface-Adsorbed Benzene on These NPs in Porous Silica Hosts. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 27628– 27642,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b08327 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
6Yang, X.-F.; Wang, A.-Q.; Wang, W.-L.; Zhang, T.; Li, J. Unusual Selectivity of Gold Catalysts for Hydrogenation of 1,3-Butadiene toward cis-2-Butene: A Joint Experimental and Theoretical Investigation. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 3131– 3139,  DOI: 10.1021/jp9107415 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
7Fleming, D. G.; Arseneau, D. J.; Shelley, M. Y.; Beck, B.; Dilger, H.; Roduner, E. μSR Studies of Hyperfine Couplings and Molecular Interactions of the Mu-Cyclohexadienyl Radical in Y-Zeolites and in Solid Bulk Benzene. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 11177– 11196,  DOI: 10.1021/jp202104u [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
8Alba-Molina, M.; Puente Santiago, A. R.; Giner-Casares, J. J.; Martín-Romero, M. T.; Camacho, L.; Luque, R.; Cano, M. Citrate-Stabilized Gold Nanoparticles as High-Performance Electrocatalysts: The Role of Size in the Electroreduction of Oxygen. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 9807– 9812,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b00249 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
9Dong, B.; Mansour, N.; Pei, Y.; Wang; Huang, T.; Filbrun, S. L.; Chen, M.; Cheng, X.; Pruski, M.; Huang, W.; Fang, N. Single Molecule Investigation of Nanoconfinement Hydrophobicity in Heterogeneous Catalysis. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 13305– 13309,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.0c05905 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
10Yamazaki, Y.; Kuwahara, K.; Mori, K.; Kamegawa, t.; Yamashita, H. Enhanced Catalysis of Plasmonic Silber Nanoparticles by a Combination of Macro-/Mesoporous Nanostructured Silica Support. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 9150– 9157,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c01669 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Xiao, J.; Arseneau, D. J.; Bridges, M. D.; Cortie, D.; Cottrell, S. P.; Dehn, M.; Fleming, D. G.; Kelly, J.; Kiefl, R. F.; MacFarlane, W. A. Interaction of the Mu-cyclohexadienyl radical with metallic (Au, Pt) nanoparticles in mesoporous silica. Journal of Physics: Conf. Series 2014, 551, 012044– 1,  DOI: 10.1088/1742-6596/551/1/012044 [Crossref], Google Scholar
12Kidder, M. K.; Buchanan, A. C., III Effect of Pore Confinement and Molecular Orientation on Hydrogen Transfer During a Free-Radical Reaction in Mesoporous Silica. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 3027– 3031,  DOI: 10.1021/jp7097558 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
13Schwager, M.; Dilger, H.; Roduner, E.; Reid, I. D.; Percival, P. W.; Baiker, A. Surface difusion of the cyclohexadienyl radical adsdorbed on silica and on a silica-suppported Pd catalyst studied by means of ALC-μSR. Chem. Phys. 1994, 189, 697– 712,  DOI: 10.1016/0301-0104(94)00311-4 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
14Yun, J. H.; Lobo, R. F. Radical Cation Intermediates in Propane Dehydrogenation and Propene Hydrogenation over H-[Fe] Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014, 118, 27292– 27300,  DOI: 10.1021/jp504453n [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
15Werst, D. W.; Han, P.; Choure, S. C.; Vinokur, E. I.; Xu, L.; Trifunac, A. D.; Eriksson, L. A. Hydrogen Atom Addition to Hydrocarbon Guests in Radiolyzed Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 9219,  DOI: 10.1021/jp990740y [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
16Carley, A. F.; Edwards, H. A.; Mile, B.; Roberts, M. W.; Rowlands, C. G.; Hancock, F. E.; Jackson, D. S. Applications of EPR to a study of the hydrogenation of ethene and benzene over a supported Pd catalyst: detection of free radicals on a catalyst surface. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1994, 90, 3341,  DOI: 10.1039/ft9949003341 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
17Fleming, D. G.; Shelley, M. Y.; Arseneau, D. J.; Senba, M.; Pan, J. J.; Roduner, E. Hyperfine and Host-Guest Interactions of the Mu-cyclohexadienyl Radical in NaY Zeolite. J. Phys. Chem. B 2002, 106, 6395– 6407,  DOI: 10.1021/jp020378e [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
18Zhang, Z.; Berg, A.; Levanon, H.; Fessenden, R. W.; Meisel, D. On the Interaction of Free Radicals with Gold Nanoparticles. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 7959– 7963,  DOI: 10.1021/ja034830z [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
19Cuadrado, R.; Puerta, J. M.; Soria, F.; Cerda, J. I. A first principles study of thiol-capped Au nanoparticles: Structural, electronic, and magnetic properties as a function of thiol coverage. J. Chem. Phys. 2013, 139, 034319,  DOI: 10.1063/1.4813615 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
20Pensa, E.; Albrecht, T. Controlling the Dynamic Instability of Capped Metal Nanoparticles on Metallic Surfaces. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2018, 9, 57– 62,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpclett.7b02994 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
21Fleming, D. G.; Manz, J.; Sato, K.; Takayanagi, T. Fundamental Change in the Nature of Chemical Bonding by Isotopic Substitution. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 13706– 13709,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201408211 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
22Roduner, E. Polarized positive muons probing free radicals: a variant of magnetic resonance. Chem. Soc. Rev. 1993, 22, 337– 346,  DOI: 10.1039/cs9932200337 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
23Dehn, M. H.; Cao, Y.; Wang, P.-X.; Cottrell, S. P.; MacLachlan, M. J.; Fleming, D. G.; Kiefl, R. F. Direct observation of muonium reacting with uncapped gold nanoparticles in porous silica and nature of the final state. J. Chem. Phys. 2020, 152, 184706,  DOI: 10.1063/5.0004210 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
24Song, H.; Rioux, R. M.; Hoefelmeyer, J. D.; Komor, R.; Niesz, K.; Grass, M.; Yang, P.; Somorjai, G. A. Hydrothermal Growth of Mesoporous SBA-15 Silica in the Presence of PVP-Stabilized Pt Nanoparticles: Synthesis, Characterization and Catalytic Properties. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 3027– 3037,  DOI: 10.1021/ja057383r [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
25Dehn, M. H.; Fleming, D. G.; MacFarlane, W. A.; MacLachlan, M. J.; Zamarion, V. M.; Kiefl, R. F. Dynamics of anisotropic muonium on silica surfaces explained by Monte Carlo simulation of the muon depolarization. JPS Conf. Proc. 2017, 21, 011032,  DOI: 10.7566/JPSCP.21.011032 [Crossref], Google Scholar
26Huang, W.; Li, W.-X. Surface and interface design for heterogeneous catalysis. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2019, 21, 523– 526,  DOI: 10.1039/C8CP05717F [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
27Metiu, H. Preface to Special Topic: A Survey of Some New Developments in Heterogeneous Catalysis. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128, 182501,  DOI: 10.1063/1.2894545 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Engel, J.; Francis, S.; Roldan, A. The influence of support materials on the structural and electronic properties of gold nanoparticles- a DFT study. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2019, 21, 19011– 19025,  DOI: 10.1039/C9CP03066B [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Murakami, K.; Sekine, Y. Recent progress in use and observation of hydrogen migration over metal oxides. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2020, 22, 22852– 22863,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CP04139D [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
30Alothman, Z. A. A Review: Fundamental Aspects of Silicate Mesoporous Materials. Materials 2012, 5, 2874– 2902,  DOI: 10.3390/ma5122874 [Crossref], Google Scholar
31Zhao, E. W.; Maligal-Ganesh, R.; Mentink-Vigier, F.; Zhao, T. Y.; Du, Y.; Pei, Y.; Huang, W.; Bowers, C. R. Atomic-Scale Structure of Mesoporous Silca-Encapsulated Pt and PtSn Nanoparticles Revealed by Dynamic Nuclear Polarization-Enhanced 29Si MAS NMR Spectroscopy. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 7299– 7307,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b01782 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
32Haw, J. F. Zeolite acid strength and reaction mechanisms in catalysis. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2002, 4, 5431,  DOI: 10.1039/B206483A [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Yin, J.; Guo, X.; Sun, Y.; Han, S.; Li, Q. Understanding the Nanoconfinement Effect on the the Ethanol-to-Propene Mechanism Catalyzedd by Acidic ZSM = 5 and FAU Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 310– 334,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c07614 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
34Mezari, B.; Magusin, P. C. M. M.; Almutairi, S. M. T.; Pidko, E. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. Nature of Enhanced Bronsted Acidity Induced by Extraframework Aluminum in an Ultrastabilized Faujasite Zeolite: An in Situ NMR Study. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 9050– 9059,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c00356 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
35Hensen, E. M. J.; Poduval, D. G.; Ligthart, D. A. J. M.; van Veen, J. A. R.; Rigutto, M. S. Quantification of Brøsted Acid Sites in Aluminosilicates. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 8363– 8374,  DOI: 10.1021/jp9106348 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
36Gierada, M.; De Proft, F.; Sulpizi, M.; Tielens, F. Understanding the Acidic Properties of the Amorphous Hydroxlated Silica Surface. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 17343– 17352,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04137 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
37Vu, K. B.; Bach, L. G.; Van Tran, T.; Thuong, N. T.; Giang, H. N.; Bui, Q. T. P.; Ngo, S. T. Gold@silica catalyst: Porosity of silica shells switches catalytic reactions. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2019, 728, 80– 86,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cplett.2019.04.082 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
38Zalazar, F. M.; Cabral, N. D.; Romero Ojeda, G. D.; Alégre, C. I. A.; Peruchena, N. M. Confinement Effects in Protonation Reactions Catalyzed by Zeolites with Large Void Structures. J. Phys. Chem. C 2018, 122, 27350– 27359,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b07357 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
39Venuto, P. B. in Catalysis by Zeolites: International Symposium Proceedings. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1997, 105, 811,  DOI: 10.1016/S0167-2991(97)80713-6 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
40Lutterloh, C.; Biener, J.; Schenk, A.; Küppers, J. Interaction of D(H) atoms with physisorbed benzene and (1,4)- dimethyl-cyclohexane: Hydrogenation and H abstraction. J. Chem. Phys. 1996, 104, 2392– 2400,  DOI: 10.1063/1.470934 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
41Rhodes, C. J.; Butcher, E. C.; Morris, H.; Reid, I. D. Mobility of Radicals in Zeolite Catalysts: Molecular Motion Studied by Muon Spectroscopy. Magn. Reson. Chem. 1995, 33, S134– S146,  DOI: 10.1002/mrc.1260331321 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
42Roduner, E.; Schwager, M.; Tregenna-Piggott, P.; Dilger, H.; Shelley, M.; Reid, I. D. Dynamics of the Cyclohexadienyl Radical Adsorebed in Porous Silica and NaZSM5. Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 1338– 1342,  DOI: 10.1002/bbpc.199500081 [Crossref], Google Scholar
43Bridges, M. D.; Arseneau, D. J.; Fleming, D. G.; Ghandi, K. Hyperfine Interactions and Molecular Motion of the Mu-Ethyl Radical in Faujasites: NaY, HY, USY. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 9779– 9793,  DOI: 10.1021/jp0686341 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
44Roduner, E.; Dilger, H. Acid Catalysis in HSM-5: The Role of Entropy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 7717,  DOI: 10.1021/ja010613r [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
45Fleming, D. G.; Arseneau, D. J.; Pan, J. J.; Shelley, M. Y.; Senba, M.; Percival, P. W. Hyperfine Coupling Constants of Muonium-substituted cyclohexadienyl radicals (C6H6Mu, C6D6Mu and C6F6Mu) in the Gas Phase. Appl. Magn. Reson. 1997, 13, 181,  DOI: 10.1007/BF03161980 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
46Yu, D.; Percival, P. W.; Brodovitch, J.-C.; Leung, S. K.; Kiefl, R. F.; Venkateswaran, K.; Cox, S. F. J. Structure and Intramolecular Motion of Muonium-Substituted Cyclohexadienyl Radicals. Chem. Phys. 1990, 142, 229,  DOI: 10.1016/0301-0104(90)89084-4 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
47Dervin, D.; O’Malley, A. J.; Falkowska, M.; Chansai, S.; Silverwood, I. P.; Hardacre, C.; Catlow, C. R. A. Probing the dynamics and structure of confined benzene in MCM-41 based catalysts. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2020, 22, 11485– 11489,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CP01196G [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
48Kaprinidis, N. A.; Landis, M. S.; Turro, N. J. Supramolecular control of photochemical enantiomeric induction and radical pair recombination in zeolites. Tetrahedron Lett. 1997, 38, 2609,  DOI: 10.1016/S0040-4039(97)00426-7 [Crossref], Google Scholar
49Rubinovich, E.; Polak, M. Unraveling the Distinct Relationship between the Extent of a Nanoconfined Reaction and the Equilibrium Constant. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 452– 457,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c08746 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
50Roduner, E. Muon Spin Resonance-A variant of magnetic resonance. Appl. Magn. Reson. 1997, 13, 1,  DOI: 10.1007/BF03161967 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
51Roduner, E. Muons in Physics, Chemistry and Materials. In Proceedings of St. Andrews Summer School in Physics; NATO Advanced Study Institute, August 1998; Lee, S. L., Kilcoyne, S. H., Cywinski, R., Eds.; Scottish Universities Summer School in Physics & Institute of Physics Publishing: Bristol and Philadelphia, 1998.Google Scholar
52Kiefl, R. F.; Kreitzman, S.; Celio, M.; Keitel, R.; Luke, G. M.; Brewer, J. H.; Noakes, D. R.; Percival, P. W.; Matsuzaki, T.; Nishiyama, K. Resolved nuclear hyperfine structure of a muonated free radical using level-crossing spectroscopy. Phys. Rev. A: At., Mol., Opt. Phys. 1986, 34, 681  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevA.34.681 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
53Kiefl, R. F. Level-crossing Resonance in Muonium-like Systems. Hyperfine Interact. 1986, 32, 707– 720,  DOI: 10.1007/BF02394975 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
54Heming, M.; Roduner, E.; Patterson, B. D.; Odermatt, W. Detection of muonated free radicals through the effects of avoided level crossing. Theory and analysis of spectra. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1986, 128, 100,  DOI: 10.1016/0009-2614(86)80154-3 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
55Kreitzman, S. R. Electron relaxation dynamics of Mu ALCR spectra. Chem. Phys. 1991, 152, 353– 364,  DOI: 10.1016/0301-0104(91)85010-E [Crossref], Google Scholar
56Kreitzman, S. R.; Roduner, E. Theory of avoided level-crossing relaxation dynamics for axal muonated radicals. Chem. Phys. 1995, 192, 189– 230,  DOI: 10.1016/0301-0104(94)00203-M [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
57Roduner, E.; Stolmár, M.; Dilger, H.; Reid, I. D. Reorientational Dynamics of Cyclohexadienyl Radicals in High-Silica ZSM-5. J. Phys. Chem. A 1998, 102, 7591– 7597,  DOI: 10.1021/jp982691f [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
58Roduner, E. Radical Reorientation Dynamics Studied by Positive-Muon Avoided Level Crossing Resonance. Hyperfine Interact. 1991, 65, 857,  DOI: 10.1007/BF02397738 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
59Senba, M.; Arseneau, D. J.; Pan, J. J.; Fleming, D. G. Slowing-down times and stopping powers for ∼ 2- MeV μ+ in low-pressure gases. Phys. Rev. A: At., Mol., Opt. Phys. 2006, 74, 042708– 17,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevA.74.042708 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Johnson, C.; Cottrell, S. P.; Ghandi, K.; Fleming, D. G. Muon implantation in inert gases studied by radio frequency spectroscopy. J. Phys. B: At., Mol. Opt. Phys. 2005, 38, 119– 134,  DOI: 10.1088/0953-4075/38/1/011 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
61Aslyamov, T.; Khlyupin, A.; Pletneva, V.; Akhatov, I. Theoretical Approach to Rough Surface Characterization for Silica Materials. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 28707– 28714,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b07761 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
62Alan, B. O.; Barisik, M.; Ozcelik, H. G. Roughness Effects on the Surface Charge Properties of Silica Nanoparticles. J. Phys. Chem. C 2020, 124, 7274– 7286,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c00120 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
63Martyniak, A.; Dilger, H.; Scheuermann, R.; Tucker, I. M.; McKenzie, I.; Vujosevic, D.; Roduner, E. Using spin polarized positive muons for studying guest molecule partioning in soft matter structures. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 4723,  DOI: 10.1039/b610414b [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
64Falkowska, M.; Bowron, D. T.; Manyar, H.; Youngs, T. G. A.; Hardacre, C. Confinement Effects on the Benzene Orientational Structure. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 4565,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201713115 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
65Bhattacharjee, S.; Lee, S.-C. Cooperation and competition between magnetism and chemisorption. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2021, 23, 3802– 3809,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CP06007K [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
66Hochstrasser, J.; Svidrytski, A.; Höltzel, A.; Priamushko, R.; Kleitz, F.; Wang, W.; Kübel, C.; Tallarek, U. Morphology-transport relationships for SBA-15 and KIT-6 ordered mesoporous silicas. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2020, 22, 11314– 11326,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CP01861A [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
67Chakraborty, D.; Chattaraj, P. K. Bonding, Reactivity, and Dynamics in Confined Systems. J. Phys. Chem. A 2019, 123, 4513– 4531,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpca.9b00830 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
68Xue, M.; Zink, J. I. Probing the Microenvironment in the Confined Pores of Mesoporous Silica Nanoparticles. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2014, 5, 839– 842,  DOI: 10.1021/jz402760b [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
69Alba-Simionesco, E.; Coasne, B.; Dosseh, G.; Dudziak, G.; Gubbins, K. E.; Radhakrishnan, R.; Sliwinska-Bartkowiak, M. Effects of confinement on freezing and melting. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2006, 18, R15– R68,  DOI: 10.1088/0953-8984/18/6/R01 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
70Roduner, E. Nanoscopic Materials: Size-Dependent Phenomena and Growth Principles, 2nd ed., Royal Society of Chemistry: 2014.Google Scholar
71Carter-Fenk, K.; Herbert, J. M. Reinterpreting π-stacking. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2020, 22, 24870– 24886,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CP05039C [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
72Lee, J.; Dougherty, D. B.; Yates, J. T. Edoge-on Bonding of Benzene Molecules in the Second Adsorbed Layer on Cu(110). J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 15645– 15649,  DOI: 10.1021/jp0625661 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
73Chiang, Y.-D.; Lian, H.-Y.; Leo, S.-Y.; Wang, S.-G.; Yamauchi, Y.; Wu, K. C.-W. Controlling Particle Size and Structural Properties of Mesoporous Silica Nanoparticles Using the Taguchi Method. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 13158– 13165,  DOI: 10.1021/jp201017e [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
74Li, J.; Zhang, Y.; Zheng, J. Intermolecular energy flows between surface molecules on metal nanoparticles. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2019, 21, 4240– 4245,  DOI: 10.1039/C8CP05932B [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
75Liu, W.; Maass, F.; Willenbockel, M.; Bronner, C.; Schulze, M.; Soubatch, S.; Tautz, F. S.; Tegeder, P.; Tkatchenko, A. Quantitative Prediction of Molecular Adsorption: Structure and Binding of Benzene on Coinage Metals. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2015, 115, 036104,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.115.036104 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
76Laoufi, I.; Saint-Lager, M. C.; Lazzari, R.; Jupille, J.; Robach, O.; Garaudée, D. S.; Cabailh, G.; Dolle, P.; Cruguel, H.; Bailly, A. Size and Catalytic Activity of Supported Gold Nanpoarticles:An in Operando Study during CO Oxidation. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 4673– 4679,  DOI: 10.1021/jp1110554 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
77Nilius, N.; Wallis, T. M.; Ho, W. Development of One-Dimensional Band Structure in Artificial Gold Chains. Science 2002, 297, 1853– 1856,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1075242 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
78van der Klink, J. J.; Brom, H. NMR in metals, metal particles and metal clusters. Prog. Nucl. Magn. Reson. Spectrosc. 2000, 36, 89– 201,  DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6565(99)00020-5 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
79Abraham, B.; Rego, L. G. C.; Gundlach, L. Electronic-Vibrational Coupling and Electron Transfer. J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 23760– 23772,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b03849 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
80Ding, W.; Hsu, L.-Y.; Schatz, G. C. Plasmon-coupled resonance energy transfer: A real-time electrodynamics approach. J. Chem. Phys. 2017, 146, 064109,  DOI: 10.1063/1.4975815 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
81Fleming, D. G.; Arseneau, D. J.; Bridges, M. D.; Chen, Y. K.; Wang, Y. A. Hyperfine Coupling Constants of the Mu-t-Butyl Radical in NaY and USY Compared with Similar Data in the Bulk and with Ab Initio Theory. J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117, 16523– 16539,  DOI: 10.1021/jp406879t [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
82Webster, B.; Macrae, R. M. A theoretical investigation of the effect of a sodium cation on the proton-electron hyperfine coupling constants of the cyclohexadienyl radical and some consequences for the muonium-substituted cyclohexadienyl radical, C6H6, formed in zeolites. Phys. B 2000, 289–290, 598– 602,  DOI: 10.1016/S0921-4526(00)00291-X [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
83Marshall, G. M.; Warren, J. B.; Garner, D. M.; Clark, G. S.; Brewer, J. H.; Fleming, D. G. Production of Thermal Muonium in the Vacuum Between the Grains of Fine Silica Powders. Phys. Lett. A 1978, 65, 351– 358,  DOI: 10.1016/0375-9601(78)90727-2 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
ARTICLE SECTIONS Jump To
This article has not yet been cited by other publications.
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic illustrating the nature of ALC resonances at specific applied magnetic fields for electron, muon, and nuclear (k = proton) spins in high longitudinal fields, where the eigenstates are given by product Zeeman states. The nonphysical crossings are shown as dashed sections in the above red curves, which plot the field dependence of the eigenstates for electron spin-up states (αe), with their avoided crossings shown by the blue-line ALC Lorentzian line shapes in the bottom part of this figure. The peak amplitudes depend on the values of the isotropic hfcc for the Δ0 lines and on the strengths of the anisotropic interactions for the Δ1 lines. Republished with permission of the Royal Society of Chemistry, from ref (22); permission conveyed through Copyright Clearance Center, Inc.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Experimental ALC results for bulk solid benzene at 275 K: (a) showing the background magnetic field-dependent baseline (dashed line), fit to an eighth order polynomial, revealing strong Δ1 and Δ0 resonances at 19.1 and 21.1 kG, respectively, seen more clearly in part b, where this background has been subtracted. In both panels, the solid lines are Lorentzian fits to the data for the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances of eqs 6 and 7 below, respectively. There is also a very weak Δ2 signal at 18.2 kG, which was reproduced by a separate adjustment of the amplitude and width, since only the position could be fit. A better example of a complete fit to this weak line can be seen in ref (7).
Figure 3
Figure 3. Background-corrected ALC scans for Bz on bare SBA-15 silica at two different loadings, 30 Torr (a) compared with 60 Torr Bz (b) at 300 K. These, and similar loadings that follow, were delivered as vapor from a “standard volume” (SV) vessel on the gas-handling system, explained in paper P1.
Figure 4
Figure 4. ALC plots for 30 Torr of added Bz from a SV (∼1.4 × 10–5 mol of Bz) on bare SBA-15 silica, taken from Figure 3 (a, red points and fitted line), contrasted with the same loading in an 8 nm AuNP/silica sample, also at 300 K (b, blue points and fitted line), corresponding to about 2–3 monolayers on the AuNP surface were they to be lying flat. See also caption to Figure 2. Note the much larger peak amplitudes in the bare silica (top) for both the Δ1 and Δ0 resonances at the lower and higher fields, respectively, compared to those in the AuNP sample, as well as the narrower Δ1 resonance seen on the AuNP surface compared to the silica. See entries in Table 1. Such spectra typically take about 2 h to accumulate.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Background-corrected ALC scans for a nominal monolayer (or, possibly, submonolayer; see P1) of 7.6 Torr Bz on an 8 nm AuNP/silica sample (a) at 300 K, compared with a loading of 30 Torr Bz (b), the same as seen in Figure 4. See caption to Figure 2. Note that the peak amplitudes are higher at the higher loading, and note as well that the sample morphologies are the same in both cases here.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Background-corrected ALC scans for a loading of 83 Torr Bz/SV on the 10 nm AuNP sample (a), corresponding to ∼5 monolayers, were they to be lying flat; (b) same as in part a but for a loading of 208 Torr. Both spectra were obtained at 305 K. Similar plots are seen for other loadings with results given in Table 1.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Comparison of background-corrected ALC scans near 300 K for a loading of 83 Torr Bz on the 10 nm AuNP sample (a, taken from Figure 6), with the same loading but scanned down to 4 kG (b), revealing no further resonances. Note the dramatic change in the x-axis scale for the field scan in this case (panel b). A similar outcome was found for a loading of 21.5 Torr Bz on this AuNP.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Comparison of a bare SBA-15 sample at a high Bz loading of ∼10–4 moles of Bz at 418 K (a) with the same loading on a 30 nm AuNP in a AuNP/silica sample at 418 K (b). Adapted from ref (11). For reference, the highest loading in the present study (Table 1) is comparable. Note the loss of the Δ1 resonance in the upper scan for the bare silica, but which, though highly broadened, is still clearly seen in the fit for the AuNP data in part b.
Figure 9
Figure 9. ALC peak heights for the Δ1 resonances for the bare SBA-15 silica (red points and linear fit), 8 nm AuNP (green points and linear fit) and 10 nm AuNP blue points and linear fit) vs the SV pressure of added benzene from Table 1. See footnote e in Table 1. The cyan-line is a fit to an asymptotic dependence for the 10 nm AuNP, from eq 8 in the text. It is noted that this trend is not predicated on the data point at the highest Bz pressure of 208 Torr. All data were obtained at 300 K.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
