I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Antiexfoliating h-BNIn2O3 Catalyst for Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane in a High-Temperature and Water-Rich Environment
Abstract
Hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) is regarded as one of the most efficient catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with high olefin selectivity and productivity. However, the loss of the boron component under a high concentration of water vapor and high temperature seriously hinders its further development. How to make h-BN a stable ODHP catalyst is one of the biggest scientific challenges at present. Herein, we construct h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalysts through the atomic layer deposition (ALD) process. After high-temperature treatment in ODHP reaction conditions, the In2O3 nanoparticles (NPs) are dispersed on the edge of h-BN and observed to be encapsulated by ultrathin boron oxide (BOx) overlayer. A novel strong metal oxidesupport interaction (SMOSI) effect between In2O3 NPs and h-BN is observed for the first time. The material characterization reveals that the SMOSI not only improves the interlayer force between h-BN layers with a pinning model but also reduces the affinity of the BN bond toward O• for inhibiting oxidative cutting of h-BN into fragments at a high temperature and water-rich environment. With the pinning effect of the SMOSI, the catalytic stability of h-BN70In2O3 has been extended nearly five times than that of pristine h-BN, and the intrinsic olefin selectivity/productivity of h-BN is well maintained.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Light olefins (e.g., propylene and ethylene) are the most important building blocks for producing various value-added fine chemicals for daily use. (1,2) The on-purpose production technologies are in the spotlight as a result of the global trend of converting light alkane feedstocks to corresponding olefins. (35) Different from the highly endothermic nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane (DHP), (6) oxidation dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) has a lower energy consumption (strong exothermic and high propane conversion) and better catalytic stability (prevention of coke deposition). (7) These merits endow ODHP with potential practical application prospects. Nevertheless, propylene can be easily overoxidized to COx, and the target product selectivity is reduced, which is a key issue yet to be addressed. (8) Recently, hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) has emerged as an efficient ODHP catalyst with enviable olefin selectivity and productivity. (911) The outstanding performance has attracted attention from academia and industry. Subsequent studies have reported that the edges of h-BN could be oxidized/hydrolyzed, and the generated BOx/B(OH)xO3x species are the active sites for catalyzing ODHP. (1214) Meanwhile, the emergence of supported boron oxide catalysts further proves that the surface-oxidized/hydrolyzed boron sites have a high activity for ODHP. (1517) But water acts as a double-edged sword, the latest reports revealed that the long-term stability of h-BN is questionable as the BOx/B(OH)xO3x species may be excessively hydrolyzed to form boric acid (H3BO3) in a water-rich reaction atmosphere. The strong water solubility of H3BO3 then leads to rapid leaching of boron elements under high weight hourly space velocity (WHSV). The loss of boron components drastically shortens h-BNs service life because BOx/B(OH)xO3x species are considered active centers for ODHP. (1820) Considering that h-BN has excellent chemical and thermal stability, such a rapid loss rate of the boron elements at a relatively low temperature (<600 C) is confusing, and the Hermans group also found BOx/B(OH)xO3x sites have a slower leaching rate. (12) Taking into consideration that the high steam concentration is unavoidable under desired olefin yield and productivity, understanding the decomposition mechanism of h-BN comprehensively and finding an effective strategy to improve the catalytic stability of h-BN in a water-rich atmosphere for ODHP becomes the most pressing scientific challenge for further development.
h-BN, a two-dimensional atomic crystal assemblied by interlayer van der Waals force and strong liplip interactions, has been widely considered a material with great electrical insulation and chemical and thermal stabilities. (21) The novel properties enable h-BN to be applied in various fields, such as high-temperature superinsulation, thermal protection, environmental cleaning, and catalysis. (2225) However, recent studies also reported that h-BN can be thermally exfoliated in the auxiliary of small molecular gas (e.g., H2O, O2, CO2). (26) Wang and co-workers discovered that H2 could react with the OH groups on the edge of h-BN at only 200 C and the violent exothermic reaction supplies enough energy to weaken the interlayer forces. The as-generated water vapor could insert into interstices between adjacent layers and diffuse along the lateral direction to increase interlayer spacing. Finally, h-BNs structure stability was weakened, which resulted in the exfoliation of h-BN layers. (27) In another study, it was found that high reaction temperatures would accelerate the diffusion of highly dynamic water vapor between neighboring layers and lead to the exfoliation/fragmentation of h-BN. Exfoliation caused abundant defects, and the exposed polar BN bond of the h-BN ring showed a strong reactivity toward the adsorbed oxygen radical at a high temperature, which leads to oxidative cutting and excessive hydrolysis. (28) In the ODHP process, the experimental condition is similar to the above exfoliation/fragmentation environment, which is quite harsh for h-BN. In particular, the as-generated C3H6 and H2O are enriched on the edges of h-BN when h-BN utilizes the conversion between BOH and BO to activate CH bonds in C3H8. (2931) The strongly exothermic nature of the ODHP process and high reaction temperature together would assist water vapor at the edges to peel off h-BN. Meanwhile, the exfoliation promotes the affinity of O• toward the BN bond and accelerates the oxidative cutting of h-BN. (28,3235) Inspired by the above discussions, we speculate that the exfoliation/fragmentation will generate lightweight and thin h-BN fragments, which eventually cause a rapid loss of the boron component under a high WHSV. At the same time, exfoliation weakens the structural stability and facilitates the hydrolysis reaction. Therefore, increasing the interlayer force and reducing the exfoliation/fragmentation is a feasible but challenging route for enhancing h-BNs catalytic stability.
Herein, to trace the origin of h-BNs decomposition comprehensively during the ODHP process, we analyze the structure change of the h-BN catalyst under a harsh reaction environment (high temperature >550 C and water vapor concentration >10%). Severe exfoliation/fragmentation is observed, which facilitates further structural decomposition. A high-velocity reaction-gas stream carries away lots of boron components and causes a significant decrease in catalytic stability. Therefore, we conclude that exfoliation/fragmentation is one of the important causes of rapid deactivation. For solving this scientific challenge, we precisely construct a novel h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalyst using the site-selective atomic layer deposition (ALD) process. (3638) The In2O3 nanoparticles were selectively distributed on the edge of h-BN. As an ODHP catalyst, h-BN70In2O3 not only maintains the intrinsic activity and superior olefin selectivity of h-BN but also greatly improves the catalytic stability. The catalysts lifetime has been greatly extended from 34 h to over 120 h, and the decay rate (Rdecay) decreased from 0.238 mmol g1 h2 to 0.048 mmol g1 h2, nearly a 5 times enhancement, under a water-rich reaction environment and a high WHSV (24000 L kgcat1 h1). The Rdecay of h-BN70In2O3 is also lower than those of other boron-based and traditional metal-based catalysts (Table S1). A novel strong metal oxidesupport interaction (SMOSI) state in h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalysts has been demonstrated, in which In2O3 nanoparticles (NPs) are encapsulated by a BOx overlayer. During the ODHP test, the SMOSI not only strengthens the interlayer force through a strong pinning effect to fix h-BN layers for inhibiting exfoliation but also prevents the degradation of BN bonds by weakening their affinities toward O• from O2/H2O to avoid further oxidative cutting/fragmentation. In addition, the BOx overlayers provide active centers for ODHP for avoiding the loss of catalytic activity. The SMOSI effect offers an effective strategy for significantly enhancing h-BNs catalytic stability without losing its intrinsic activity under harsh reaction conditions (e.g., high temperatures, humidity). It further provides new ideas for improving the high-temperature oxidation resistance of two-dimensional materials for facing various applications in harsh environments.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
First, we systematically investigated the structure change of h-BN nanosheets as ODHP catalysts. As shown in Figure S1, h-BN possessed favorable stability with an initial propane conversion of 12%. During the stability test of 100 h, olefin selectivity, and yield were maintained at 93 and 10%, respectively. The as-generated water vapor concentration at this reaction condition was calculated to be 2%. The outstanding stability was consistent with previous literature, and this demonstrated that h-BN had remarkable catalytic stability under a low water vapor concentration. (10,12,39) However, to obtain a high olefin yield (>30%) and productivity, a harsher reaction condition is inevitable, which requires an increased reaction temperature and generates more water vapor as a byproduct. (4042) After replacing fresh h-BN catalysts and increasing the reaction temperature, the initial propane conversion was increased to 42% and olefin selectivity was about 79% at 556 C (Figure 1a). The corresponding yield of olefins was about 34% (Figure 1b). After a run time of 36 h, propane conversion slowly decreased to less than 40%. Subsequently, propane conversion rapidly decreased to 33% in another 12 h, and the corresponding olefin yield was only 27.5%. The calculated as-generated water vapor concentration decreased from 11 to 7% (Figure S2a). The good carbon balance, regeneration experiment, and obvious catalyst weight loss together revealed that the decrease in the activity of h-BN was not caused by coke deposition (Figure S2b,c and Table S2). A sharp rise and fall also occurred at around 18 h, which may have resulted from the generation of the lightweight and thin h-BN fragments. The defect-rich h-BN fragments had more exposed BOx/B(OH)xO3x active sites for improving catalytic reactivity, but they could also be easily carried away under high WHSV.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Catalyst activity and structural characterization. Propane conversion, olefin selectivity (a), and olefin yield (b) as a function of reaction time catalyzed by pristine h-BN. (c) TEM image of fresh h-BN before the stability test (h-BN-F). (d) TEM image of pristine h-BN after 12 h stability test (h-BN-S). FT-IR spectrum (e) and XPS spectra of B 1s (f) of sediments accumulated in part A. Reaction conditions: reaction temperature, 556 C; catalyst weight, 100 mg; the initial C3H8 conversion is 42% and the corresponding water vapor concentration is 11%; WHSV = 24,000 L kgcat1 h1.
Structural characterizations were then performed for h-BN-F and h-BN-S to investigate the catalytic activity decay at a high water vapor concentration (11%). From transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figures 1c and S3a,b), it could be observed that h-BN-F had a smooth surface and neat edge. However, obvious damage appeared on the surface of h-BN-S, and the edge of h-BN-S became rough (Figures 1d and S3c,d). In addition, elongated etch lines (yellow circle) and tiny h-BN fragments (black circle) were found on the surface of h-BN-S (Figure S3f,g). The six-membered rings near the etch line were seriously distorted, and some were broken (Figure S3g). These structural changes were consistent with the exfoliated cutting of h-BN. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern revealed that the diffraction peaks of the (002) plane of h-BN shifted to a smaller angle after a long-term ODHP treatment, which indicated that the lamellar spacing of adjacent layers became larger. (27,43) Additionally, the half-peak width of the (002) peak in h-BN-S was larger than that of h-BN-F, which further suggested the exfoliation/fragmentation of h-BN nanosheets (Figure S4). The increase of the BET specific surface area and the appearance of new mesoporous further confirmed the presence of exfoliation/fragmentation of h-BN during the ODHP test in a water-rich environment (Figure S5). Meanwhile, Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra also verified the presence of the oxidation/hydrolyzation process during the ODHP test (Figures S6 and S7). It is important to note that H3BO3 species also formed even at lower propane conversion (12%) (corresponding water vapor concentration 2%) (Figure S8a). Different from the serious exfoliation/fragmentation observed at high propane conversion, h-BN was mainly etched on the edge at a lower propane conversion, and this slower decomposition behavior endowed catalysts with excellent stability (Figure S8bd). (10)
After a total of 48 h of stability test, it was found that powders were deposited on the inner wall of the quartz tube downstream of the reaction gas outlet at two separate locations (part A and part B in Figure S9a). We conducted several FT-IR tests on sediments in part A and found it was a mixture with three main components of NH4B5O8·4H2O(1), H3BO3(2), and hydroxylated h-BN(3) fragments (Figures 1e and S9b,c). It could be observed that component (3) has four strong FT-IR bands, with bands at 804 and 1387 cm1 corresponding to the bending and stretching modes of BN vibrations. The strong peaks at 3441 cm1 correspond to the OH stretching vibration mode from N3B(OH) units, which is the feature of hydroxylated h-BN nanosheets by water vapor exfoliation. (28,44) For the h-BN-S samples, the stretching vibration mode of OH at 3212 cm1 (Figure S9c), which corresponded to H3BO3, clearly implies the gradual hydrolyzation of h-BN. The XRD pattern and XPS spectra also proved the components of sediments in part A (Figures 1f and S9d and S10). The B 1s XPS spectra of sediment in part A can be fitted into three peaks at 190.7, 191.8, and 192.8 eV, arising from the signal of B in BN, N3B(OH) units, and BOH of BOx component, respectively. (44,45) The above results revealed that exfoliation/fragmentation and mild hydrolyzation coexisted. It should be noted that the samples in sediments in part A had an obvious CO band (1636 cm1), (46) and the XPS spectra also showed the presence of CO groups (Figures S9c and S10c). According to the literature, (47) BOx/B(OH)xO3x sites could catalyze CH4 and O2 to form HCHO/CO; therefore, a trace amount of aldehyde was generated as abundant CH3* radicals in the reaction atmosphere. (31,48) On the contrary, the h-BN-S did not have CO groups, which indicated these byproducts could not adsorb on the h-BN under reaction conditions and would not cause catalytic deactivation.
To further characterize their chemical composition and crystal structures, TEM images were acquired (Figure S11). First, lots of thin and irregular shape h-BN nanosheets were observed, which might be a collection of small h-BN fragments. For instance, the fragment in the black ring of Figure S11e was similar to the thin sheets on the surface of spent h-BN (the black ring of Figure S3g). Second, many dark contrasted particles also existed in the composite. The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image indicated the small irregular particles had high crystallinity with interlayer crystal lattice spacings of 0.303 and 0.313 nm, which matches the (0-12) and (1-21) planes of H3BO3 (Figure S11f). In contrast, sediments in part B consisted of pure H3BO3, which were confirmed by the XRD and XPS results (Figure S12).
As previously discussed, the active centers for ODHP were mainly located on the edge of h-BN. (9,10) Therefore, the in situ-generated water vapor as a reaction product enriched on the edges of h-BN will facilitate the exfoliation of h-BN on-site. (27,28,30,31) Moreover, the inherent strong exothermicity of ODHP provided enough heat locally, which assisted in the exfoliation of h-BN. Although h-BN has a strong oxidation resistance (stable in the air up to 840 C), (34,49) the highly dynamic water vapor diffused along the adjacent layers and weakened structural stability. In addition, the expansion and exfoliation weakened the electrostatic attraction (liplip interactions) between B and N atoms in adjacent h-BN layers along stack direction and therefore led to the enhanced affinity of N toward O• from H2O/O2, which could cause oxidative cutting and fragmentation at elevated temperatures. (28) To summarize, the rapid leaching of active boron components is mainly due to the following reasons: (i) ODHP reaction releases sufficient heat and generates steam on-site, which decreases the structural stability of h-BN and leads to the exfoliation/fragmentation of h-BN; (ii) the slow hydrolysis of h-BN to form H3BO3. The greatest scientific challenge at the moment is to improve the catalytic stability of h-BN under harsh reaction conditions.
To address the abovementioned arduous task, the ALD process was utilized to construct h-BNxIn2O3 (x indicates the number of ALD cycles) composite catalysts. As shown in Figure S3b, the h-BN nanosheets used in this study were about seven layers, which allowed In2O3 to be deposited on the edges. Figure 2 illustrates the synthesis process for h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalysts. Briefly, after drying at 300 C for 30 min, h-BN nanosheets were transferred into the ALD chamber. H-doped In2O3 was synthesized on the edge of h-BN by alternatively exposing cyclopentadienyl indium (InCp), H2O, and O2 plasma at 150 C. The BOH on the edges of h-BN provided the nucleation sites for amorphous H-doped In2O3. The amorphous H-doped In2O3 was then in situ transformed to well-crystalline In2O3 at an ODHP reaction condition with a propane conversion of 50%.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Schematic illustration of the preparation of h-BNxIn2O3 catalysts.
The fresh catalysts were directly loaded in a quartz tube, and the ODHP test was performed after treatment at a propane conversion of 50% for 30 min. h-BNxIn2O3 with different ALD cycles displayed distinct stabilities, for example, h-BN30In2O3 had an initial propane conversion of 44.3% (at 554 C), and the corresponding olefin selectivity and yield were 78.5 and 34.8%, respectively (Figures 3a and S13). After a total reaction time of 52 h, the propane conversion decreased to 36.7%, and olefin selectivity increased to 81.6%, which resulted in the final olefin yield being less than 30%. The concentration of water vapor decreased from 11 to 8% accordingly. As the number of ALD cycles was increased to 50 cycles, the catalytic stability of h-BN50In2O3 showed significant improvement, it took 88 h for the propane conversion to decrease from 42 to 38.6% (at 560 C). The corresponding olefin selectivity increased from 79.8 to 81.9%, and the yield of olefins was still more than 30% (Figures 3d and S14). The catalysts service lifetime was further enhanced as the number of deposition cycles was increased to 70 cycles. After 120 h, propane conversion remained above 40% (41.3%) with an initial conversion of 43.4% (at 566 C). Olefin selectivity was maintained at 78  1%, and the final olefin yield was only reduced slightly from 33.9 to 32.9%. The as-generated water vapor remained above 10% accordingly (Figures 3g and S15). Different from the pristine h-BN catalyst, only little H3BO3 was deposited on the inner wall of the quartz tube of the gas outlet (Figure S16), and the catalytic stability of h-BN70In2O3 did not show obvious fluctuation (Figure S17a,b). These results suggested that the introduction of In2O3 improved the structural stability of h-BN, and the exfoliation/fragmentation was efficiently inhibited. More importantly, modification of h-BNs edges with In2O3 had no negative effects on the product distribution. At a similar propane conversion (42%), all catalysts displayed almost the same product distribution, and the selectivities of olefins and CO were 79% (C3H6 = 55% and C2H4 = 24%) and 14%, respectively (Figure S17c).
Figure 3
Figure 3. Catalytic stability and TEM images of different catalysts. (ac) h-BN30In2O3, (df) h-BN50In2O3, and (gi) h-BN70In2O3. STEM image of spent h-BN70In2O3 catalyst and the corresponding EELS elemental mapping (j) and spectra (k) of the selected regions. Note: (b, e, h) fresh catalysts and the scale bars are 20 nm; (c, f, i) 12 h spent catalysts and the scale bars are 50 nm. Reaction conditions: reaction temperature, h-BN30In2O3 (554 C), h-BN50In2O3 (560 C), and h-BN70In2O3 (566 C); catalyst weight, 100 mg; the initial C3H8 conversion is 42% and the corresponding water vapor concentration is 11%; WHSV = 24,000 L kgcat1 h1.
The XRD pattern of fresh h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalysts showed obvious diffraction peaks that were mainly attributed to h-BN (Figure S18). In the enlarged view, one broad peak around 32 was observed, which could be assigned to the (220) plane of amorphous H-doped In2O3. (38) As the number of ALD cycles increased, the intensity of this broad diffraction peak also increased. This tendency was consistent with the inductively coupled optical atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) results (Figure S19); the loading of In increased from 1.39 to 3.87 wt % with the increasing number of ALD cycles. The TEM results demonstrated that amorphous H-doped In2O3 formed isolated nanoislands on the edge of h-BN (Figures 3b and S20a,b). As the number of ALD cycles increased, H-doped In2O3 formed continuous films, and the average thickness increased from 1.41 to 2.21 nm (Figures 3e,h and S20cf). What calls for special attention is that H-doped In2O3 mainly grew on the edges, which was further proved by the results of scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), and elemental mapping and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) analysis (Figures S21 and S22). Such selective deposition of metal oxides on h-BN following an island-layer (StranskiKrastonov) growth mode was also observed in our recent work. (50) This precise and controllable growth was caused by the reaction between InCp and BOH on the edges.
After the ODHP reaction, the structural change of spent h-BNxIn2O3 catalysts was investigated by TEM. As shown in Figure 3c, the h-BN30In2O3 sample had two obvious long etch lines on the surface, indicating degradation of h-BN with exfoliation/fragmentation. In addition, H-doped In2O3 agglomerated into large In2O3 NPs (2030 nm), with a lattice spacing of 0.415 nm corresponding to the (211) plane of In2O3. (51,52) Although most In2O3 NPs were still sitting on the edges of h-BN, the dispersity was decreased, leaving a portion of h-BN nanosheets without obvious coating (Figures 3c and S23). As the number of ALD cycles increased, H-doped In2O3 thin films would also be oxidized and form highly dispersive crystalline In2O3 NPs. The In2O3 NPs mainly sit on the edge of h-BN to form a composite structure with a pinning model. Unlike spent h-BN and h-BN30In2O3, there were no observable cracks and breakages on the surface and edges of spent h-BN50In2O3 and h-BN70In2O3 (Figures 3fi and S24 and S25). The results suggested that the novel composite structure of highly dispersive In2O3 NPs on h-BN could suppress the exfoliation/fragmentation of h-BN.
As shown in the XRD pattern (Figure S26a), after treatment under an ODHP reaction atmosphere with a propane conversion of 42%, h-BNs characteristic peaks were still dominant in spent h-BNxIn2O3. The broad peak around 32 in fresh h-BNxIn2O3 disappeared in spent h-BNxIn2O3, while new sharp diffraction peaks at 2θ = 21.6, 30.7, and 35.6 corresponding to the (211), (222), and (400) planes of In2O3 emerged. This also suggested that the amorphous H-doped In2O3 had transformed into well-crystallized In2O3. (51) In addition to this, the h-BN30In2O3 sample had two additional small diffraction peaks, which could be attributed to InBO3. As the number of ALD cycles increased, the intensity of In2O3 diffraction peaks was enhanced, and the small peaks assigned to InBO3 and H3BO3 disappeared or weakened significantly (Figure S26b,c). Like pristine h-BN, the diffraction peak of the (002) plane of h-BN30In2O3 also shifted to a small angle after 12 h of the ODHP test, which indicated the expansion and exfoliation of adjacent layers in h-BN. On the contrary, the (002) characteristic peak of h-BN remained the same in h-BN50In2O3 and h-BN70In2O3 (Figure S26d). These results suggested that the layer structure of h-BN was reinforced with extra strength from In2O3 NPs as in a pinning model. The comparison of the BET surface area between h-BN-S and h-BN70In2O3-S also verified the above speculation (Figure S27). Meanwhile, from the TEM images of h-BNxIn2O3-S, it could be found that the more the pins (In2O3 NPs), the better the fixing effect.
In addition, HRTEM analysis confirmed that In2O3 NPs were covered by ultrathin amorphous overlayers during the ODHP reaction at an elevated temperature (Figures S23S25 and S28). EELS elemental mapping (Figures 3j and S29a) and microregion EELS spectra showed that boron elements were distributed uniformly in the overlayer on the In2O3 NPs (Figures 3k and S29b region 2). (13,53,54) In contrast, there were no boron elements on the surface of In2O3 of fresh h-BN70In2O3 catalyst (Figure S21). Under the ODHP reaction conditions, BOx/B(OH)xO3x species would be generated as the oxidation/hydrolyzation of h-BN and gradually migrated onto In2O3 NPs. (55,56) The as-generated BOx overlayers indicated that a strong metal oxidesupport interaction (SMOSI) existed in In2O3/h-BN systems, which was similar to the classical strong metalsupport interaction (SMSI) effect. (5558)
In addition to the requirement for high catalytic stability, high olefin selectivity, and productivity were also indispensable features. All of the catalysts were sequentially treated at the reaction conditions of propane conversion of 50% for 30 min prior to the ODHP test. The catalytic performance of different catalysts at the reaction temperatures (480560 C) is summarized in Figure 4. All catalytic reactions started at 480 C had similar catalytic activity. For example, at 530 C, benchmark pristine h-BN catalysts possessed a propane conversion of 11.5% and an olefin selectivity of 91.5% (C3H6 = 77.9%, C2H4 = 13.6%). At the same temperature, the propane conversions achieved by h-BN30In2O3, h-BN50In2O3, and h-BN70In2O3 were 13.4, 11.5, and 10.1%, respectively. The olefin selectivities achieved by h-BN30In2O3, h-BN50In2O3, and h-BN70In2O3 were 91.5% (C3H6 = 77.3%, C2H4 = 14.2%), 92.9% (C3H6 = 79.8%, C2H4 = 13.1%), and 93.1% (C3H6 = 80.0%, C2H4 = 13.1%), respectively (Figures 4a-b and S30). h-BNxIn2O3 also featured high olefin yield and productivity similar to pristine h-BN. As shown in Figure 4d-e, h-BN30In2O3 had a maximum olefin yield of 36.9% (C3H6 = 24.4%, C2H4 = 12.5%, at 560 C) (Figure S31) and a higher olefin productivity of 3.33 golefins gcat1 h1 (C3H6 = 2.20 gC3H6 gcat1 h1, C2H4 = 1.13 gC2H4 gcat1 h1) (Figure S32). With increased In2O3 loading, the maximum olefin yield and productivity of h-BN50In2O3 and h-BN70In2O3 decreased slightly to 33.1% and 2.99 golefins gcat1 h1 and 30.0% and 2.69 golefins gcat1 h1, respectively. Compared to the value (olefin yield = 34.4%, productivity = 3.10 golefins gcat1 h1) acquired from pristine h-BN, the most stable h-BN70In2O3 did not lose the property of high olefin yield and productivity. The result of maintaining outstanding olefin selectivity and productivity for h-BN-based composite catalysts is quite encouraging. While some other pioneer works, such as water-tolerant boron-substituted zeolite, have shown great stability, their olefin selectivity in a wide range of propane conversions (1.4 to 30%) is not as high as h-BN. (20,59,60)
Figure 4
Figure 4. Comparison of catalytic performance of h-BN and h-BNxIn2O3 catalysts in the ODHP reaction. Comparison of propane conversion (a) and product selectivity (b) as a function of reaction temperature between pristine h-BN and h-BNxIn2O3 catalysts. (c) Comparison of propane conversion and product distribution among different catalysts at 530 C. Olefin productivity (d) and productivity (e) between pristine h-BN and h-BNxIn2O3 catalysts. (f) Reaction rate as a function of reaction temperature over pure h-BN and h-BNxIn2O3 catalysts.
According to the Arrhenius equation, the h-BN30In2O3 catalyst possessed high apparent activation energy (Ea) at 175.6 kJ mol1 (Figure 4f and Table S3). The variation in performance compared to pristine h-BN demonstrated that a low In2O3 loading had a positive effect on the catalytic activity. Through HADDF-STEM images of h-BN30In2O3 and h-BN70In2O3 (Figure S33), it could be found that some In atoms or atomic clusters existed in the h-BN30In2O3 sample, but not as much in h-BN70In2O3. Under a high In loading, agglomeration into NPs was dominant as an effect of ripening. The Wu group has previously reported the VOx atomic clusters could facilitate the surface oxyfunctionalization (BOV sites) for CH activation. (61) Meanwhile, the latest research found the atomically dispersed [InOH]2+ sites could efficiently activate CH in light alkanes. (62) We, therefore, speculated the isolated InOB clusters had higher activity for activating CH bonds of propane. When the ALD cycle increased to 70 cycles, the activity was slightly lower than that of pristine h-BN. This was because In2O3 NPs themselves did not have ODHP catalytic activity (Figure S34), and a high In2O3 loading would inevitably cover part of active sites on h-BN. Above all, the pinning model from the SMOSI effect between In2O3 and h-BN had no obvious negative effect on the catalytic activity for ODHP, and at the same time, the catalytic stability was significantly improved.
To further investigate how the SMOSI improved catalytic stability. h-BNxIn2O3 was characterized by FT-IR, XPS, and thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA). As shown in Figure 5a, FT-IR spectra showed that the ALD process caused no obvious damage to the structure of h-BN. All of the samples mainly had two peaks centered at 1329 and 761 cm1, which could be assigned to the BN stretching and BNB bending vibrations in h-BN. (63) As the ALD cycles increased, a new peak at 480 cm1 could be identified, which was attributed to the InO vibration in xIn2O3-F. (64) After the ODHP test, the strong peaks of BOH (3200 cm1) and BO (1190 cm1) were obvious and sharp, and this change was consistent with that of h-BN, indicating the formation of catalytic active BO species for ODHP. (10,65) The conversion between BOH and BO was still the dominant reaction mechanism in driving the oxidation dehydrogenation of propane. With an increase in ALD cycles, the intensity of series peaks (3200, 2260, 634, 544 cm1) peculiar to H3BO3 significantly decreased (Figures 5b and S35). (39,66,67) These results demonstrated that the SMOSI effect inhibited the hydrolysis of h-BN to H3BO3. The XPS characterizations suggested a possible charge transfer between In2O3 and h-BN. With increased numbers of ALD cycles in xIn2O3-S, the binding energy of B 1s gradually shifted to a higher binding energy, while the binding energy of In 3d gradually shifted to a lower binding energy (Figure 5c-d). Such charge transfer interaction (BOIn) might therefore inhibit the excessive oxidation of h-BN by the adsorbed O• and avoid oxidative cutting during the ODHP process.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Structures of different catalysts and proposed decomposition and stable mechanism. FT-IR spectra of (a) fresh (xIn2O3-F) and (b) spent (xIn2O3-S) h-BNxIn2O3 catalyst. B 1s (c) and In 3d (d) XPS spectra of spent h-BNxIn2O3 catalysts. TGA curves of fresh (e) and spent (f) catalyst. (g) Schematic illustration of the decomposition of h-BN and the stable mechanism (h) of h-BN70In2O3 during the ODHP test.
TGA results further proved the SMOSI effect significantly improved the thermal stability under a dynamic air atmosphere. Compared to pristine h-BN (stable up to 840 C in air), all xIn2O3-F catalysts only started obvious oxidation decomposition when the temperature exceeded 1050 C. The slight decrease in weight starting around 280 C could be attributed to the dehydration to form In2O3x. (64) After ODHP treatment, xIn2O3-S catalysts still possessed outstanding stability at high temperatures (stable to 1050 C). All spent catalysts had an obvious weight loss at low temperatures, which mainly resulted from the desorption of adsorbed H2O and dehydration of as-generated H3BO3. The value of the initial weight loss was 6.2, 7.5, 4.6, and 2.6% for h-BN-S, 30In2O3-S, 50In2O3-S, and 70In2O3-S, respectively. The TGA curves further proved the SMOSI effect of h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalysts weakened the adsorption of O• and suppressed the exfoliation/fragmentation through a novel pinning model.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, we have demonstrated that exfoliation/fragmentation is an important factor for the rapid loss of the boron components of h-BN as ODHP catalysts under unavoidable harsh reaction conditions. The strong exothermic feature and a high as-generated water vapor concentration give rise to serious exfoliation/fragmentation (Figure 5g). For solving such a scientific challenge, we have successfully constructed novel h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalysts through the ALD process. Interestingly, the in situ-generated amorphous BOx/B(OH)xO3x species in the ODHP reaction would migrate onto In2O3 NPs to form an ultrathin BOx encapsulation overlayer. The novel interaction effect between In2O3 and h-BN is regarded as a SMOSI state, which is similar to the classical SMSI effect. Such reaction-induced SMOSI effect significantly reduces the decay rate (Rdecay) from 0.238 mmol g1 h2 to 0.048 mmol g1 h2 (Table S1). Our results reveal that SMOSI not only strengthens the interlayer force of h-BN like a pin and improves the structural ability under high temperature but also weakens the affinity of the BN bond to O• under reaction conditions with high-concentration water vapor (Figure 5h). In brief, the novel SMOSI effect improves the antiexfoliation of h-BN and inhibits exfoliation/fragmentation in complicated and harsh ODHP reaction conditions. Overall, our finding gives a more comprehensive understanding of the loss of active components. Meanwhile, the novel pinning model of the SMOSI effect not only opens up a new route to developing high-performance h-BN-based ODHP catalysts but also provides a new strategy for improving the high-temperature oxidation resistance of two-dimensional materials facing harsh application environments.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 