I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Identification of the active sites in supported subnanometric metal catalysts


Identifying the active sites in supported catalysts comprising isolated metal atoms and subnanometric clusters is challenging because of the difficulty in obtaining detailed structural information under reaction conditions. Here, we discuss the limitations and pitfalls that may be encountered and provide suggestions accordingly.
The active sites in heterogeneous catalysts can show dynamic structural transformation, as shown in numerous model and practical catalysts1,2. Understanding the structural features of the active site at work is vital for establishing structurereactivity relationships, which allows the rational design of superior solid catalytic materials. This approach requires rigorous structural characterization and correlation with reactivity measurements3. The objective is particularly challenging for supported catalysts comprising isolated metal atoms and subnanometric clusters (Fig. 1). This is because of their higher sensitivity to the reaction conditions compared to nanoparticles and the difficulty in obtaining their structural details as one approaches the detection limits of commonly employed microscopy and spectroscopy techniques4,5,6.
Fig. 1: Illustration of different types of supported metal catalysts.
a, Isolated supported metal atoms. b, Metal species with monolayer structure. c, Subnanometric metal clusters with three-dimensional structures. d, Bimetallic clusters. e, Supported metal nanoparticles. f, Partially oxidized metal nanoparticles.
Full size image
The two most frequently used techniques for characterizing highly dispersed supported subnanometric metal catalysts are aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-STEM) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy (EXAFS)7. AC-STEM can provide imaging information on the size, location and chemical composition of the metal species down to the subnanometre scale. In turn, EXAFS is able to provide averaged information on the coordination environment of the metal species in the whole bulk sample according to the fitting of the spectra. These two techniques are complementary to each other in showing the dispersion and structural features of the metal species in the solid catalysts, as demonstrated in the literature. However, limited by their working principles, the structural features of the isolated metal atoms or clusters may not be fully resolved and the results obtained may not lead to univocal interpretation. In this Comment, we will discuss the limitations and pitfalls that may be encountered in the structural characterizations of subnanometric metal catalysts and we will emphasize the need to employ complementary techniques to characterize the chemical signature of highly dispersed metal catalysts and to correlate the structural characterization with reactivity measurements.
Structural characterizations by AC-STEM
Elements with a higher atomic number (Z number) will have a higher Z-contrast in high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) images recorded by AC-STEM. When the solid carrier is made by light elements such as C, N, Al, Si and Ti, metal atoms such as Au, Pt and Ir (Fig. 1a) can be easily distinguished from the support if the support is not very thick (for instance, <50 nm) in the measured area. To avoid interference from the support, the areas that are measured by AC-STEM are usually at the edge of the support, which may not be favourable for obtaining global information on the whole sample.
More importantly, when the support is not a flat surface, its irregular morphology will cause local bright signals in the two-dimensional (2D) projected HAADF-STEM image as a result of the supports uneven thickness, despite there being no target metal atoms with high Z-contrast in the measured area. Such phenomena are well documented for the high-resolution HAADF-STEM images of metal oxide nanoparticles8. Under this circumstance, one has to consider the relative difference in contrast between the target metal atoms and the support. For instance, the contrast of a single Pt atom is about 13 times that of a single Ti atom within anatase (TiO2) structures (corresponding to the thickness variation of 34 nm along the (001) orientation), which should be large enough to discriminate the Pt atom from the TiO2 support5. However, if a support is changed from TiO2 to CeO2, the contrast of a single Pt atom is close to twice that of a single Ce atom, corresponding to the thickness variation of 0.5 nm in the support. Such small difference in contrast will be influenced by the supports morphology and should be carefully checked using image simulation and control experiments9. In principle, the identification of metal species can be accompanied by energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and/or electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS)10, though it is quite challenging to directly obtain the spectroscopic signal of an isolated metal atom due to the low signal-to-noise ratio.
When the solid carrier is changed from conventional carbon materials or metal oxides to crystalline porous materials (zeolites or MOFs), the contrast distribution of the porous support in the HAADF-STEM image is not as continuous as that of non-porous supports. Therefore, only the metal atoms at specific positions can be distinguished from the porous framework while the contrast of the metal atoms in other regions could be covered by the support, as demonstrated with isolated Sn and Pt atoms in MFI zeolite11.
AC-STEM characterization is easier for metal clusters than for isolated atoms due to the much higher contrast of metal clusters in HAADF-STEM images. The 3D geometric conformation of metal clusters can be reconstructed based on the atomic-resolution images. In some materials, multiple metal atoms may agglomerate and form a 2D raft-like structure (Fig. 1b), where the distance between the metal atoms could be slightly longer than the bond length observed in the corresponding bulk phase12. For those structures, there is no common agreement on the assignment to isolated metal atoms or to clusters (Fig. 1c). Nevertheless, it is quite common to observe the co-existence of isolated metals and ensembles of metal atoms (510 atoms) in supported metal catalysts when the metal loading is 1 wt% (refs. 13,14). In our opinion, those agglomerated metal atoms could probably show cluster-like behaviour in a catalytic reaction, though the metalmetal bonding interaction could be weaker than that in uniformly dispersed metal clusters protected by organic ligands15.
Another issue related to the AC-STEM characterization is the exposure to air during preparation of the specimen for AC-STEM measurement. In some cases, reoxidation of reduced metal catalysts may cause the transition from an ordered structure to a disordered structure. For bimetallic nanoclusters, reoxidation can lead to segregation of the two metal elements. To minimize the influence of the samples exposure to air, the sample can be processed in a glove box under inert atmosphere16. Alternatively, the measurement can be performed under in situ conditions, though in situ TEM is still a challenging technique for achieving atomic resolution with subnanometric metal catalysts17.
Structural characterizations by EXAFS
By fitting the EXAFS spectra, one may clarify the structural features and estimate the average particle size of the metal species. Notably, EXAFS is not sensitive to highly dispersed metal oxide species with particle sizes <1 nm. As reported in the literature, small metal oxide particles/nanoclusters such as CuOx, FeOx and SnOx may only show a dominant metaloxygen contribution in the EXAFS spectra while the intensities of second-shell metalmetal contribution are usually very low18. Moreover, the presence of short-distance first-shell contribution associated with metalN/C contribution are commonly observed with metal nanoclusters supported on carbon-based supports19. Consequently, estimation of the particle size of metal nanoclusters/particles supported on oxide or carbon materials by EXAFS will be tricky and usually gives a fairly large error if the fitting of the spectra is only based on the first-shell metalN/C/O contribution. For those types of species, AC-STEM can be a more reliable tool though it also requires collection of a large number of images to reflect the whole catalyst.
As mentioned above, exposing reduced metal catalysts to air causes the reoxidation of metal species. For instance, when being partially oxidized, small Pt nanoparticles (1 nm, Fig. 1e,f) supported on metal oxides (Al2O3 or TiO2) may show a dominant PtO contribution in EXAFS spectra that is highly similar to the spectroscopic feature of a sample comprising isolated Pt atoms on oxide support, though a large number of Pt nanoparticles can be clearly observed in the HAADF-STEM images5,20. In this scenario, the EXAFS spectra may lead to misleading conclusions on the dispersion of Pt species if EXAFSs low sensitivity to oxidized small metal particles is not taken into account. Interestingly, even after a very mild reduction treatment by H2 at 50 oC, the metallic PtPt contribution will be observed in EXAFS spectra, indicating the critical role of in situ treatments when studying reduced metal particles. The inaccuracy of EXAFS analysis for estimating the particle size can also be found with supported metal catalysts containing Re, Ru and Ir, where the metal species are partially reduced under reaction conditions21.
The low sensitivity of EXAFS can also affect the structural analysis of supported nanoclusters with flat morphologies (for instance, monolayer or bilayer metal species visualized by HAADF-STEM), which have a relatively large contact with the support. The fitting of EXFAS results may give a low coordination number in metalmetal contribution and a dominant contribution of metalO/N/C interactions between the metal and the support22. For those flat structures, the underestimated agglomeration of metal atoms according to the EXAFS fitting results could lead to incorrect ascription of flat nanoclusters to isolated metal atoms.
When dealing with bimetallic nanoclusters (Fig. 1d) or single-atom alloy nanoparticles, detection of the bonding between the two elements (M1M2) is important for elaborating on the spatial distribution of the two elements23. However, the M1M2 bonding could be buried by the metalmetal bonding in the matrix phase (M1M1 and M2M2), if the M1M2 bonding length is similar to the matrix phase or the abundance of M1M2 bonding in the whole sample is not high enough16. For example, modulation of the structural features of PtSn bimetallic clustersfor example, via formation of Sn(II) species on the external surface of Pt clustersare not immediately visible by conventional characterization techniques (ex situ AC-STEM and in situ EXAFS), though it results in one-order of magnitude lower deactivation rate in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, further indicating that subtle differences in the structure of subnanometric metal species can lead to distinct catalytic behaviour.
Structural characterizations by other techniques
Besides AC-STEM and EXAFS, which are the two most frequently used techniques to directly measure subnanometric metal catalysts (see their advantages and limitations in Table 1), other techniques such as IR spectroscopy, chemisorption and fluorescence spectroscopy can also provide valuable information relating to the size-dependent chemical signatures of supported metal species. These techniques should be employed as complementary tools to overcome the limitations of AC-STEM and EXAFS.
Table 1 Advantages and limitations of AC-STEM and EXAFS for characterization of supported subnanometric metal catalysts
Full size table
For instance, IR spectroscopy with CO as the probe molecule (CO-IR) is quite useful to discriminate the electronic properties of the metal species, as the spectra are closely related to the particle size and coordination environment24,25,26,27. However, the assignment of IR bands relies on the measurements of reference samples (support and samples containing metal species with different sizes)28, which should be carefully considered in practice. Chemisorption using CO or H2 as the probe molecules are classic and efficient tools to calculate the number of exposed metal sites on metal nanoparticles. However, because of their weaker interaction with CO and H2 under conventional conditions for chemisorption measurements, it can be difficult to apply this technique to subnanometric metal species. As for fluorescence spectroscopy, this is a sensitive technique for metal clusters, though the fluorescence emission intensity could depend on the coordination environment of the metal clusters29. For that reason, it is preferred to perform the fluorescence spectroscopy measurement under in situ/operando conditions. The catalysts reducibility, which can be measured easily using temperature-program reduction treatment, is also a useful identifier for determining what types of metal species are present in the material, especially considering that isolated metal atoms are more difficult to reduce than the corresponding aggregated metal oxide nanoclusters/nanoparticles.
It is clear that each technique has its limitation and advantage for some types of metal species and may provide false positive/negative results due to the complicated structures of supported metal catalysts. Therefore, the combination of multiple techniques in a concerted way is strongly recommended for elucidating the nature of the active sites in supported metal catalysts comprising isolated atoms and clusters30. Knowing the characteristics of each technique is vital to extract reliable information from different sources, especially when different techniques seem to lead to contradicting results.
More importantly, multiple types of metal species, from isolated atoms to clusters and nanoparticles, may co-exist in a catalyst. The determination of the percentage of each type of species on the basis of different techniques is crucial for establishing the structurereactivity relationship31. This goal could be achieved by calibrating the characteristic signatures of the metal species (such as CO adsorption bands in IR spectra and the metalmetal coordination number obtained by EXAFS) using model samples with well-defined structures (such as the atomically precise metal clusters prepared by wet-chemistry methods32).
Correlation between structural analysis and catalytic performance
Analysis of the catalytic properties of well-defined model systems (material with uniform morphology and comprising metal entities with a very narrow size distribution) can also provide important information on the nature of the active sites. If supported isolated metal atoms are proposed to be the active sites, thus a linear correlation between metal loadings and reaction rate (or initial turnover frequencies) should be observed for a series of samples in which the metal species exist primarily as isolated metal atoms33. On the contrary, if a volcano-type correlation between metal loadings and reaction rates is observed, the best-performing species could be in between isolated metal atoms and larger clusters. In this approach, careful control of the size distribution of the metal species is critical for performing a fair comparative study34,35.
Another approach to investigate the working active site is to follow the evolution of the structure of the supported metal catalysts36. It should be noted that the structure of the active species may undergo dynamic transformation during the recovery of the solid catalyst after catalytic tests, such as during cooling of the sample in thermal catalysis or isolation of the catalyst from the electrolyte/solvent in electrocatalysis/photocatalysis37,38. Such changes may interfere with determination of the real active sites if the effects of post-reaction procedures are not carefully studied. Ultimately, structural characterizations under operando or in situ conditions seems to be the preferred approach to avoid potential pitfalls and to obtain reliable structural information of the active sites that are otherwise difficult to visualize either before or after the reaction, as demonstrated by the coupling of EXAFS and reactivity measurements for revealing the structurereactivity relationship with supported Rh catalysts39.
In conclusion, coupling different analytical techniques, using suitable experimental conditions and performing systematic studies on a series of well-controlled reference catalysts is of crucial importance to obtain reliable insights on the reactivity of supported subnanometric metal catalysts. We hope that the issues discussed above, which can be appreciated by specialists in AC-STEM microscopy and EXAFS spectroscopy, can also help researchers who are not yet familiar with the characterization of isolated metal atoms and subnanometric clusters.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 