<DOCUMENT>
Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on the oxygen adsorbed edges of boron nitride nanoribbons†
Metal-free boron nitride has recently been reported to exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity towards oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). Despite several experimental studies, the exact nature and function of the active sites in this emerging catalyst are unknown. In the present work, density functional theory calculations are combined with microkinetic modeling to systematically explore the ODHP on oxygen passivated boron nitride nanoribbons (BNNRs). The relative stabilities of different edge structures of BNNR were examined using ab initio thermodynamic analysis, and the most stable oxygen passivated edge structure was used for a mechanistic study. Microkinetic analysis revealed that a N2O or NOx-type active site is active and selective for the conversion of propane to propene. In addition to a heterogeneous catalytic cycle, the proposed N2O/NOx-type active sites are expected to be able to generate gas phase C3H7˙, which in turn can trigger gas phase reactions of ODHP as experimentally speculated.
1. Introduction
Recently, the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) has attracted immense research interest for producing one of the most important light olefins in the petrochemical industry, propene. The ODHP promises a significant improvement in terms of energy consumption,1,2 catalyst stability (lack of coke formation),3 and propane conversion,4 over on-purpose non-oxidative catalytic processes and conventional non-oxidative cracking processes of naphtha.5,6
However, the selectivity towards propene in ODHP catalyzed by transition metal oxides and alkaline-earth metal is poor. This is largely due to the over-combustion of the reaction product propene to COx.7–12 The ODHP over a VOx/CaO-γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) catalyst under gas phase, oxygen-free conditions, i.e., using lattice oxygen, shows promising activity with high propane conversion (65%) and propene selectivity (85%). However, it also produces considerable amounts of CO2 (selectivity ∼15%) and requires the setup of at least two reactors (a reactor and a catalyst regenerator).13
In this context, hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) has recently appeared as a potential metal-free catalyst for ODHP with comparable propene selectivity to that of the above-mentioned vanadium oxide catalyst, but with only negligible CO2 formation even in the presence of molecular oxygen. Grant et al. reported that h-BN offers 79% selectivity towards propene at 14% propane conversion with negligible CO2 formation when heated to 460–500 °C under flowing propane, oxygen, and nitrogen gas.14 As the observed activity is still low, a deeper understanding of the active site and reaction mechanism of the ODHP over h-BN is needed to optimize this catalyst system. Many mechanisms and active sites have been proposed for this reaction. By comparing ab initio modeled wavenumbers to experimental spectroscopic findings, Grant et al. proposed that the molecular oxygen adsorbed armchair edge of h-BN acts as the active site for the ODHP reaction.14 In addition, they suggested that the ODHP reaction can be initiated with secondary hydrogen abstraction from propane by a B–O–O–N active site, leading to a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate with adjacent B–OH species.14 Next, Shi et al. reported that the zigzag edge of h-BN with attached B–OH groups can efficiently catalyze the ODHP reaction with superior propene selectivity (80.2%) at a remarkable propane conversion (20.6%) and with negligible production of CO2 (selectivity 0.5%).15 They proposed a radical type mechanism where the active site is a BNO˙ species, generated by molecular oxygen abstracting a hydrogen from B–OH groups, which can trigger propane dehydrogenation.15–18 In other recent work, Hermans et al. hypothesized that the high selectivity towards propene under ODHP reaction conditions is not unique for only BN, but is similar for many boron-containing materials such as: boron carbide, titanium boride, nickel boride, cobalt boride, hafnium boride, tungsten boride, and elemental boron.19,20 As they found elemental boron as the most efficient catalyst among the tested boron containing materials, they concluded that boron is the essential element for achieving high propene selectivity. Indeed, they proposed a surface-stabilized BOx or B(OH)xO3−x species as the active site for the ODHP, which contradicts their previous h-BN edge site mechanistic hypothesis.19–21 Using SiC as an inert catalyst diluent, Venegas and Hermans furthermore hypothesized that gas-phase chemistry has a significant influence on the ODHP reaction over h-BN.22 They speculated that their previously proposed19,20 BOx active sites on h-BN act as “initiators” that can generate propyl radicals by snatching an H atom from propane, which again, can trigger radical chain reactions through interaction with oxygen, leading to a gas phase mechanism for the ODHP reaction.22 Interestingly and somewhat contradictory to the interpretation of experimental data from Hermans et al.,14,19–22 Chaturbedy et al. found that the oxidation of B–N bonds in h-BN poisoned the catalyst.23 They observed an initially high catalytic activity of h-BN, which provided remarkable selectivity for alkenes (∼70%) at very high conversion (∼50%) of propane, but h-BN retained this activity for only 5 hours. According to Chaturbedy et al.,23 the short catalyst lifetime appeared to be due to oxidation of surface B–N bonds, which can be reduced by heating in ammonia. Next, Chaturbedy et al. hypothesized various B–N species on the BN surface and/or edge, such as B–N, B–N–B, N–B–N, and B–NH2, as the active sites for the ODHP reaction.23 The potential importance of N- or NOx-type active sites bound to boron atoms is further motivated by experimental results from Annamalai et al. who observed that gas-phase NOx-species can catalyze the ODHP with very high selectivity.24
In other words, there is no consensus in the community over what is the active site and reaction mechanism. In addition, all the above-mentioned experiments were carried out under high concentrations of nitrogen gas (N2) and elevated temperatures (∼500 °C) during which BN can react and form various surface sites. For example, Grant et al.19 performed the ODHP reaction on a number of boron containing materials including elemental boron at 500 °C with a gas concentration ratio of 3 : 6 : 11 of O2 : C3H8 : N2. We hypothesize that molecular N2 can, at significant concentration and temperature conditions, play a role in creating some kind of nitrogen rich and/or NOx-type active site for ODHP, even when the original material is free of nitrogen, as found in other high temperature reactions.25,26 This is in particular possible if the NN does not have to be broken for the creation of these sites as will be the case for the active site models studied here.
Thus, given that our understanding of the active site and mechanism for the ODHP reaction on h-BN remains incomplete despite a number of experimental and computational studies,14–21,23,27–29 we have systematically explored the ODHP reaction on oxygen passivated boron nitride nanoribbons (BNNRs) using a combination of DFT and microkinetic modeling techniques. Specifically, we selected a one-dimensional (1D) BNNR active site model, i.e., not a two-dimensional (2D) h-BN cluster model, since the effects of system size are more easily controlled when applying the periodic boundary condition in one direction. We note that it is still possible to study various edge sites that might form under experimental ODHP reaction conditions with BNNR models. Next, we performed an ab initio thermodynamic analysis of the different BNNR edge sites in the presence of molecular O2 in order to identify the most stable active sites under experimental ODHP conditions which can be different to the sites available during synthesis conditions and which likely involve some form of oxygen passivation. Then, we studied various reaction pathways on the most stable oxygen passivated active sites and computed free energy diagrams for the surface-catalyzed ODHP. Finally, we developed a microkinetic reaction model for the active site models to predict the turnover frequency, apparent activation barrier, reaction orders, dominant reaction pathways, and rate controlling elementary steps under ODHP reaction conditions.
2. Models and methods
2.1. Details of computation
All periodic DFT calculations of this study were performed using the Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP 5.4).30,31 The Perdew, Burke and Ernzerhof (PBE)32 functional was used to describe the exchange and correlation terms of DFT, while core electronic states were described by projected augmented wave (PAW)33 potentials. The energy cutoff for the plane wave basis sets was 400 eV. To sample the Brillouin zone of a 2D h-BN monolayer, a 3 × 3 × 1 Monkhorst–Pack (MP)34k-mesh was used, while the k-mesh used for zigzag and armchair BNNRs were 3 × 1 × 1 and 1 × 3 × 1, respectively. For geometry optimization, the atomic positions were relaxed until the residual force on each atom became less than 0.01 eV Å−1, and the self-consistent field (SCF) energy convergence cutoff was set as 10−7 eV with a Gaussian smearing of 0.05 eV. A vacuum distance of 15 Å was added normal to the plane to avoid any interaction between the replicas. Since dispersion interactions can play a vital role in the accurate prediction of the energetics of adsorption and desorption processes of long-chain hydrocarbon molecules and considering that the PBE functional is unable to describe van der Waals interactions, we also performed calculations using Grimme's semi-empirical DFT-D3 methodology.35 Furthermore, we examined the effect of choice of DFT functional on the ODHP reaction by performing select calculations with the newly developed meta-GGA SCAN+rVV10 functional.36,37 Overall, we found PBE results to be closer to SCAN+rVV10 results such that in the following we focus on the PBE data. Section 3.3 discusses the effect of DFT functional and D3 correction in more detail.
To model the desired nanoribbons, a large (16 × 16) orthorhombic 2D supercell of h-BN (a = 40.08 Å and, b = 34.72 Å) as shown in Fig. 1(a) was built, starting with the hexagonal unit cell of h-BN with a lattice constant of 2.50 Å. The 1D BNNRs were modeled from this supercell by cutting it in such a way that it produces: (1) an armchair edge (armBNNR), (2) a zigzag edge (zzBNNR), and (3) a modified zigzag edge (mzzBNNR) with boron dangling bonds in one zigzag edge and nitrogen dangling bonds in the other zigzag edge, as shown in Fig. 1(b)–(d), respectively. Each supercell of BNNR possesses 128 atoms (64 B and 64 N) and a fixed lattice constant along the 1D periodic direction in accordance (exactly half) with the corresponding 2D supercell periodic direction. After optimization, the N dangling bonds of mzzBNNR form five-membered rings at the edge as shown in Fig. 1(d). The boron and nitrogen dangling bonds of bare BNNRs were passivated by adding O atoms and the stable structures were identified using an ab initio thermodynamic analysis. To determine the transition state (TS) of each elementary reaction step we use the climbing-image nudged elastic band (NEB),38,39 and the dimer methods.40,41 The characterization of all the TS as well as minima were done by numerical vibrational frequency calculations with a step length of 0.02 Å.
Fig. 1 (a) Optimized structure of 16 × 16 orthorhombic 2D supercell of h-BN. The ribbon supercell modeled from the 2D supercell is denoted by a black, green, and red dashed box for armBNNR, zzBNNR, and mzzBNNR, respectively. (b) and (c) Optimized structures of the bare supercell of (b) armBNNR and (c) zzBNNR. (d) Supercell of bare mzzBNNR before (left) and after (right) optimization. (e)–(g) Optimized structures of fully O passivated (e) O@armBNNR, (f) O@zzBNNR, and (g) O@mzzBNNR.
2.2. Ab initio thermodynamic analysis
The formation of the edge-oxygenated BNNR under ODHP reaction condition was described as and the corresponding Gibbs free energies were calculated by,
(1)
where E
ZPE
BNNRnO
and E
ZPE
BNNR
correspond to zero-point energy (ZPE) corrected total energies of oxygen adsorbed BNNR and bare armchair BNNR, respectively. The Gibbs free energies of the gas molecules were calculated using,
(2)
where E
DFT
gas
is the DFT calculated energy using the PBE functional, and Δμgas(T, P0) is the gas chemical potential calculated from the rotational, translational and vibrational partition functions of the gas molecules. To avoid the well-known errors associated with using DFT-PBE (self-interaction, spin contamination, etc.), the energy of an oxygen molecule, EO2, is obtained semi-empirically from the H2O splitting reaction using the experimental reaction energy and DFT energies of H2 and H2O in the gas phase as,42,43
(3)
Here, EZPE is the experimental zero-point energy,44Ehof is the experimental heat of formation of a gas-phase H2O molecule (T = 0 K), and EDFT is the energy calculated with the PBE functional.
2.3. Microkinetic modeling
We used harmonic transition state theory to calculate rate constants for the elementary surface reactions, while collision theory with a sticking coefficient of 1 was used to calculate the rate constants for adsorption processes.
The forward (kfor) and reverse (krev) rate constants of a surface reaction were calculated as,
where E
a
for
and E
a
rev
correspond to ZPE corrected forward and reverse activation barriers, respectively. The ZPE was calculated from vibrational frequencies (vi) as,
The frequency factors (Afor and Arev) were calculated from the vibrational partition functions (qvib) for a certain surface reaction (say A* → B*) as,
where,
To improve the accuracy of the harmonic approximation we shifted all (real) frequencies below 50 cm−1 to 50 cm−1, so that for surface reactions low frequency modes have no effect on reaction energies and rate constants.
For an adsorption process, the forward rate constant was calculated using
where mA is the molecular weight of adsorbed species A and Sunit is the adsorption area of the active site. The reverse rate constant (krev) was obtained from the equilibrium constant, which was calculated from the ZPE corrected adsorption energy (ΔEads) and the entropy factors of a gas molecule A using the expression
where A* represents the adsorbed gas species.
After obtaining the forward and reverse rate constants for each elementary reaction, a master equation was constructed and solved for the steady-state solution of probability densities for the system to occupy each discrete state, referred to as surface coverage (θ), which in turn provides turnover frequencies (TOF).
The apparent activation energy (Eapp) was calculated as,
from the overall rates keeping the total pressure (P) and the mole fraction of species i in the reaction mixtures (yi) constant.
To determine the reaction order (αi) with respect to species i at a specific temperature (T) we used the expression
where the partial pressure of the species (pi) was varied while keeping the partial pressures of all other species (pj≠i) constant.
The “degree of rate control” for step i (XRC,i) was calculated using Campbell's theory45–47 as,
where the equilibrium constant for step i (Ki) and all other rate constants (kj≠i) were held constant.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Ab initio thermodynamic analysis for catalyst characterization
We started the exploration for an appropriate catalyst model by investigating the most favorable edge sites of the BNNRs for O2 adsorption using DFT and constrained thermodynamic analysis. All bare BNNRs studied possess the same number of atoms (128 atoms). As a result, comparisons can be made between the relative stability of these BNNRs before and after edge passivation with oxygen. Herein, we chose the dissociative adsorption of O2 on the edge sites as suggested by Li et al.29 The relaxed geometry of the fully oxygen passivated armBNNR (O@armBNNR), zzBNNR (O@zzBNNR) and mzzBNNR (O@mzzBNNR) are shown in Fig. 1(e–g). O2 was found to prefer molecular adsorption on the armBNNR edge, which agrees with the hypothesis of Grant et al.14 and the findings of Li et al.29 regarding the molecular oxygen adsorption on the armchair edge. The N-edge of zzBNNR favors the dissociative adsorption, while molecular adsorption of O2 takes place on the B-edge. The dissociative adsorption of O2 was found to be preferred on both edges of the mzzBNNR.
The results suggest that the mzzBNNR and zzBNNR are less stable compared to the armBNNR in bare form and the stability order was found to be armBNNR > zzBNNR > mzzBNNR, as shown in Fig. 2(a) for zero O passivation. In order to understand the relative stabilities of the oxygen adsorbed edge sites, the adsorption Gibbs free energy (ΔGads), was calculated using eqn (1) with reference to the most stable bare form of BNNR, i.e., armchair BNNR, by varying the number of adsorbed O atoms on the edges of all three BNNRs and the results are plotted in Fig. 2(a). While ΔGads does not seem to vary much with increasing number of O atoms on the armBNNR, a large variation of ΔGads was observed on the other two BNNRs. After full O passivation, mzzBNNR becomes the most stable structure and the stability order reverses to O@mzzBNNR > O@zzBNNR > O@armBNNR. This trend implies that the least stable bare BN edge can eventually become the most stable BN edge after oxygen passivation under reaction conditions. The decrease in free energy observed with increasing number of O atoms on the three BNNRs clearly indicates that the BN edges are preferred to be O passivated under ODHP reaction conditions.
Fig. 2 (a) Gibbs free energy (ΔGads) variation with O passivation on the edges of the three BNNRs. (b) Close view of ΔGads variation with large number of adsorbed O atoms on the mzzBNNR edge. Color codes are shown in the corresponding insets. All free energies are calculated with reference to the energy of the optimized supercell of bare armchair BNNR at T = 800 K and PO2 = 0.15 atm. PN2 = 0.55 atm, PN2O = 0.001 atm, and PNO = 0.001 atm. (c)–(k) Optimized structures of 4O, 12O, and 14O passivated O@armBNNR (c–e), O@zzBNNR (f and g), and O@mzzBNNR (i–k), respectively.
To understand the process of O passivation at different edges of the BNNRs considered in this study, the fully relaxed structures of each nanoribbon are shown with different numbers of O atoms, 4O, 12O, and 14O in Fig. 2(c)–(k). O passivation starting from either edge of the armBNNR will produce the same structure, but it can be different for the zzBNNR and mzzBNNR as they possess two different edges, namely, a B-edge and a N-edge. Performed calculations revealed that the adsorption of O atoms that start from the B-edge are energetically more favorable than the corresponding adsorption on the N-edge for both the zzBNNR and mzzBNNR as shown in Fig. S1 of the ESI.† Hence, in the present work we considered O adsorption starting from the B-edge for the ab initio thermodynamic analysis as shown in Fig. 2. Fig. 2(a) further reveals that the oxygen passivated armBNNR is still the most stable structure when the number of adsorbed O atoms on all the BNNRs is below 6, but the stability of O@mzzBNNR increases dramatically when the edges become passivated with more O atoms. Thus, BN edge sites, similar to O@mzzBNNRs at high O passivation, likely exist under experimental reaction conditions and might be a relevant active site for the ODHP reaction. Moreover, the variation of ΔGads for O@mzzBNNR becomes small only when the number of adsorbed O atoms on the edge is close to full passivation (nO > 12, Fig. 2b) suggesting that every five-membered ring on the N-edge of O@mzzBNNR will have at least one adsorbed O atom under ODHP reaction conditions as shown in Fig. 2(j). A closer look at the ΔGads variation of O@mzzBNNR (Fig. 2b) suggests that the structure with 12 adsorbed O atoms (here after referred as BNNR12O) is the most stable structure and a small increase in ΔGads was observed when more O atoms are added to this edge. Since the energy differences between BNNR12O and the ribbons thereafter with higher O passivation were found to be very small, any of these O adsorbed BNNR structures can be chosen as the initial catalyst model for the ODHP reaction (assuming that a redox cycle is possible between the structures having a difference in the number of O atoms of two and the initial catalyst can be regenerated from the other one through O2 adsorption only with a small free energy penalty).
In order to further validate the stability of the potential O@mzzBNNR catalyst, we performed a constrained thermodynamic analysis for desorption of NO, N2O and N2 gas molecules from the catalyst structure. The desorption of one N2 molecule was considered through the removal of two edge N atoms from the bare five-membered ring of BNNR11O, while for N2O desorption removal of two edge N atoms with one O passivated at the edge five-membered ring from BNNR12O (Fig. 2(j)) was considered. Similarly, removal of two N atoms with two O passivation atoms at the edge five-membered ring (having a N2O2 like composition) from BNNR13O, leading to desorption of two NO molecules, was studied. The free energies for desorption of these gas molecules were calculated at a temperature of 800 K using the same reference as before and are plotted in Fig. 2(b). The partial pressure of N2 gas was set to 0.55 atm which is consistent with the experimental gas concentration ratio of 3 : 6 : 11 of O2 : C3H8 : N2.19 For the partial pressure of N2O and NO, we used a relatively low pressure of 0.001 atm to study the catalyst stability in presence of trace amounts of these molecules. Fig. 2(b) reveals that the desorption of NO from BNNR13O, N2O from BNNR12O, and N2 from BNNR11O yield structures that are 3.2 eV, 2.7 eV and 1.3 eV less stable than the parent nanoribbon, respectively, indicating high stability of the considered catalysts. Based on our constrained thermodynamic analysis, N2 desorption seems less energy demanding relative to NO and N2O desorption, however, it should be kept in mind that such desorption occurs through an energy barrier. In section 3.2, we discuss the pathway and energy barrier for N2 desorption from the catalyst at practical reaction conditions.
In order to also explore the possibility of B loss, we performed a constrained thermodynamic analysis for removal of the oxygen passivated B edge from BNNR12O as a one-dimensional (1D) BO chain. We considered such 1D BO species as a precursor which can generate more stable bulk-like B2O3 species by reacting with oxygen molecules. The free energies for the B loss was calculated at a temperature of 800 K and compared with N2, NO and N2O desorption from the considered catalysts and shown in Fig. S10 of the ESI.† The optimized structures of the 1D BO, nanoribbon after BO removal (12O–B2O3), fully oxygen passivated nanoribbon after BO removal (O@12O–B2O3), and the unit cell of bulk B2O3 are shown in the same figure. Fig. S10† reveals that the removal of edge BO from BNNR12O yields a nanoribbon with an additional N edge which is much less stable than the parent nanoribbon. Although oxygen passivation at this new N edge can improve the stability to some extent, it is still 7.6 eV uphill in energy relative to BNNR12O. Thus, B loss leading to the formation of bulk-like B2O3 species is thermodynamically uphill and hardly occurs.
3.2. Reaction pathways of the ODHP at oxygen passivated mzzBNNRs
The ab initio thermodynamic analysis discussed above suggests that the BNNR edges remain oxygen passivated under ODHP reaction conditions, and that the O adsorbed mzzBNNR is the most stable structure under experimental reaction conditions. In order to identify a favorable site on this O@mzzBNNR that can activate propane, the BNNR14O structure was initially chosen (envisioning a catalytic cycle between BNNR14O and BNNR12O – also called path I) and various possible intermediate structures were calculated for the first C–H cleavage of C3H8. The relaxed structures of fifteen different possible configurations of first H abstraction from C3H8 (namely, P1 to P15) on different sites of BNNR14O edges are shown in Fig. S2† and the corresponding relative (free) energies are tabulated in Table S1 of the ESI.† All relative (free) energies discussed in the mechanistic investigation are calculated with reference to the sum of the energies of BNNR14O, and the reactant gas molecules, C3H8 and O2. The experimental reaction conditions14,15 of T = 800 K, PC3H8 = 0.3 atm, and PO2 = 0.15 atm were used to calculate the relative free energies of intermediates and transition states involved in the mechanism. The large positive relative energy and free energy values observed for the configurations P1 (ΔG = 7.21 eV) and P2 (ΔG = 4.18 eV), where the H abstraction occurs on the B-edge of BNNR14O, clearly indicate that this mechanism on the B-edge of the BNNR14O is not active for H abstraction from C3H8, since it requires breaking of the B–O–B ring structure to initiate the ODHP reaction. In addition, we investigated the heterolytic C–H activation mechanism over a B–O pair to form a propyl bonded to B, and a hydrogen bonded to an adjacent O (Fig. S2(c) and P3 in Table S1†) on the oxygen passivated B-edge of BNNR14O similar to the ODHP mechanism proposed by Zhang et al.48 over B2O3. Again, we found a large positive relative free energy value of 2.58 eV. Next, Lu et al. proposed that a hydroxyl group on B, created by cleavage of the B–O bond in boron oxide through water adsorption, can react with O2 to form a peroxo species that is active for C–H abstraction in the ODHP reaction over mesoporous silica-supported boron oxide catalysts.49 We have explored the relative stability of similar species that can possibly form through water adsorption on the oxygen passivated B-edge of BNNR14O (Fig. S2(d)†), leading eventually to a peroxo species (Fig. S2(e)†) after reaction with oxygen for C–H abstraction. We observed a large positive relative free energy value of 3.08 eV for this peroxo species (P5) as tabulated in Table S1.† Therefore, we conclude that the O passivated B-edge of the mzzBNNR is not the active site for the ODHP reaction. Instead, all the configurations on the N-edge (P6 to P15) display a favorable first H abstraction from C3H8 with negative ΔE values and relatively small positive ΔG values as shown in Table S1 of the ESI.† Thus, these calculations indicate that the O passivated mzzBNNR N-edge can be the active site for the ODHP reaction and we designate this active site as a N2O or NOx site. The most stable configuration on the N-edge was found to be P14 (Fig. S2(n)†) with ΔE = −1.3 eV and ΔG = 0.2 eV, where the secondary H of C3H8 was abstracted by one bare N atom and the propyl group (C3H7) binds with the adjacent O. These N and O atoms are referred to as Ne1 and Oe1, respectively, as shown in Fig. S2(n).† Furthermore, the relative stabilities of the different configurations of the first H abstraction from C3H8 on other O@mzzBNNRs with different number of O atoms such as BNNR11O, BNNR12O, BNNR13O and BNNR15O have been investigated, and were found to have a configuration similar to P14 on BNNR14O, which is the most stable configuration on all the BNNRs. Therefore, in the proposed reaction mechanism for the ODHP, the P14 configuration was considered as the first H abstracted intermediate structure (IM2, Fig. 3) on the catalyst BNNR14O. The proposed mechanism of the ODHP reaction on the chosen O@mzzBNNR catalyst follows a pathway in which C3H8 first binds and reacts with the catalyst and then desorbs as C3H6 leaving two H atoms on the catalyst. The H atoms can undergo rearrangement through the edge to produce H2O and create an oxygen vacancy on the catalyst. Subsequently, a similar pathway for the reaction of a second C3H8, which leads to the formation of two oxygen vacancies on the BNNR edge, was considered. These vacancies can be replenished by dissociative adsorption of O2. The overall reaction of the ODHP on an O@mzzBNNR catalyst can be written as,
On@mzzBNNR + 2C3H8 → On−2@mzzBNNR + 2C3H6 + 2H2O (4)
On−2@mzzBNNR + O2 → On@mzzBNNR (5)
A schematic representation of three different possible catalytic cycles, starting with a different number of surface oxygen atoms (14O to 12O; 13O to 11O; and 12O to 10O), considered in the present work is shown in Fig. 3. We note that the relative stability of all of these structures in the catalytic cycles are similar (see Fig. 2), that all pathways are coupled, and that only a full microkinetic model as developed later in this section can determine the most dominant reaction cycle.
Fig. 3 Schematic representation of three different reaction cycles of the ODHP reaction on the chosen O@mzzBNNR catalyst. The 14O to 12O cycle (also called path I), the 13O to 11O cycle (also called path II), and the 12O to 10O cycle (also called path III) are indicated with green, red, and blue arrows, respectively. Somewhat more mechanistic details are shown for path I that are also present in the other pathways.
Fig. 4 illustrates the calculated relative Gibbs free energy profiles for all three (coupled) reaction pathways at a representative temperature of 800 K. The corresponding energy profile is shown in Fig. S3 of the ESI.† For path I (see Fig. 3), the ODHP reaction starts with the weak adsorption (ΔE = −0.01 eV) of a C3H8 molecule (IM1) on the initially chosen catalyst edge (BNNR14O, IM0), followed by an H abstraction from the secondary carbon of C3H8 leading to a stable propyl intermediate (IM2). For the second H abstraction from the stable propyl intermediate, one H from either methyl group is abstracted by the bare Ne2 atom leading to an intermediate (IM3) with adsorbed C3H6. Desorption of a C3H6 molecule leaves two H atoms on the ribbon (IM4). In the following steps, the remaining two H atoms on IM4 can rearrange through the edge oxygen atoms and the two neighboring OH groups react to produce one H2O molecule and an O vacancy on the ribbon (IM6). Different possible H rearrangement pathways were examined, and the optimized structures of these intermediates together with the relative free energies of the intermediates and TSs involved are shown in Fig. S4 of the ESI.† The highest energy barrier from the H rearrangement network (Fig. S4†) constitutes the effective energy barrier for the H rearrangement process (TS4) and is shown in the free energy diagram (Fig. 4). Next, desorption of H2O from IM6 leads to a nanoribbon with one less oxygen (BNNR13O, IM7). BNNR13O can again react with another C3H8 molecule to produce a second set of products, C3H6 and H2O, while creating a second oxygen vacancy in the nanoribbon (BNNR12O, IM14) following a similar reaction sequence as mentioned above. Now, the initial catalyst (BNNR14O) can be regenerated by the dissociation of an O2 molecule on BNNR12O (IM14) which completes the 14O → 12O → 14O catalytic cycle of path I. Our calculations revealed that this O2 dissociation process (TS15′) requires a high activation barrier of 2.76 eV. In path II and path III, BNNR12O (IM14) can react further with another C3H8 molecule through a much lower barrier (TS15) than TS15′ and eventually produce BNNR11O (IM21) through desorption of a C3H6 and a H2O molecule, in a similar mechanism to that of 14O → 13O or 13O → 12O. Next, adsorption and dissociation of O2 on IM21 (BNNR11O) was considered to regenerate the BNNR13O (IM7) active site and close the catalytic cycle of path II which requires an activation barrier of 1.74 eV (TS22′) which is more than 1 eV lower than the O2 dissociation process of path I. Further reaction of BNNR11O (IM21) with C3H8 to produce BNNR10O (IM27) was also considered and is called path III in Fig. 3 and 4. However, the free energy barrier for the propane activation on BNNR11O (TS22) was found to be 0.58 eV higher than the barrier for O2 dissociation (TS22′, Fig. 4). A closer look at the free energy diagram involving all 3 pathways (path I, II, and III) (Fig. 4) suggests that the cycle starting from BNNR13O (path II) possesses lower activation barriers and thus, is likely more favorable over the other two cycles. The optimized structures of the intermediates involved in path II of the ODHP reaction starting from the BNNR13O (IM7) catalyst are provided in Fig. 5. The corresponding TS structures are shown in Fig. S5 of the ESI.† Different possible H rearrangement pathways (from IM11 to IM12) were examined and the optimized structures of these intermediates together with the relative free energies of the intermediates and TSs involved are shown in Fig. S6 of the ESI.† The highest energy barrier was chosen from the H rearrangement network (Fig. S6†) as the effective energy barrier for the H rearrangement process (TS11) and is shown in the free energy diagram (Fig. 4) similar to what was done in the BNNR14O case (path I).
Fig. 4 Free energy profiles for three different (coupled) catalytic cycles (path I: 14O to 12O; path II: 13O to 11O; and path III: 12O to 10O) of the ODHP reaction on the O@mzzBNNR catalysts. Color code of different parts of the pathways are shown in the inset. All free energies are calculated with reference to the sum of the energies of BNNR14O and the reactant gas molecules, at T = 800 K, PC3H8 = 0.3 atm, PO2 = 0.15 atm, PC3H6 = 0.3 atm, PH2O = 0.3 atm, PC3H7˙ = 0.3 atm, PN2 = 0.55 atm, PN2O = 0.001 atm, and PNO = 0.001 atm.
Fig. 5 Reaction network of various ODHP reaction steps in the catalytically most relevant cycle, path II, that starts on the BNNR13O catalyst structure (IM7, marked by light green box). Color code of the pathways is consistent with Fig. 4. The reaction free energies (purple) and free energy barriers (black) of each elementary step are shown in eV. T = 800 K, PC3H8 = 0.3 atm, PO2 = 0.15 atm, PC3H6 = 0.3 atm, and PH2O = 0.3 atm.
In addition to the ODHP pathways discussed above, we also examined the feasibility of a gas phase ODHP reaction initiated by the BN catalyst as experimentally speculated by Venegas et al.22 In the surface catalyzed cycle, the first C–H cleavage of adsorbed C3H8 transfers an H atom to the bare N atom of the BNNR edge and the remaining propyl group is transferred to the O atom adsorbed on the neighboring N atom. Our NEB calculations for this process and the optimized TS structure (TS8 in Fig. 6) suggest that this process initially forms a C3H7˙ radical after H-transfer which then moves to the neighboring surface O site in a barrier-less downhill process. Alternatively, the C3H7˙ radical can also desorb as a gas species and participate in a gas phase ODHP reaction. The concept of such a single TS leading to two different product states is well established.50 To check the feasibility of such a gas phase radical generation, the relative free energy for the C3H7˙ radical desorption process at 800 K (shown in Fig. 4 as IM9′) was calculated. Results showed that the free energies of IM9 (−1.60 eV) and IM9′ (−1.58 eV) are nearly the same. Thus, at 800 K, the generation of a gas phase C3H7˙ radical seems to be equally likely to that of the surface adsorbed stable intermediate. Although, the extent of gas phase radical formation will depend on the applied temperature and partial pressure of C3H8, it can be concluded that the proposed N2O/NOx-type active sites on the BN edge can also generate C3H7˙, which in turn can trigger gas phase reactions for the ODHP as experimentally speculated.22 Although, a full microkinetic analysis of these gas phase reaction is outside the scope of the present work, we can at least speculate that the presence of such gas phase mechanism may be the reason for the presence of other cracking byproducts found under experimental conditions.
Fig. 6 Schematic representation of propyl radical (C3H7˙) formation from the TS of the first C–H cleavage of adsorbed C3H8 on the BNNR13O active site structure. The reaction free energies and free energy barriers of each elementary step are the same as those shown in Fig. 5.
In addition to propane activation, high selectivity to propene is one of the key features of the BN catalyst for the ODHP. In other words, if the proposed N2O/NOx active site is relevant for the experimental system, it has to be selective for propane activation relative to further activation of propene. Although, a full microkinetic analysis of all propene activation steps is outside the scope of the present work, we have calculated the barrier for propene activation over the considered catalysts shown in Fig. 4 (shown in rust color triangles and designated with superscript #). The relative (free) energy barriers for propene activation over the proposed N2O/NOx active sites are summarized and compared with corresponding propane activation barriers in Table S2 of the ESI.† We found that over all the catalysts, the barrier for propene activation is about 0.2 eV higher than the corresponding propane activation (except for BNNR11O, where it is 0.1 eV higher). Thus, at similar propane (C3H8) and propene (C3H6) partial pressures, the selectivity to propene (versus propene activation products such as C2H4 and COx) can be estimated from where is the difference between the free energy barriers of propene and propane activation, respectively. For a free energy barrier difference of 0.2 eV, we obtain a propene selectivity of ∼95% at 800 K. This indicates that the considered N2O/NOx active site on the BN edge is indeed selective for the propene production. As a word of caution, we note that if the difference in activation barrier is only 0.1 eV (which is certainly within the uncertainty range of DFT), then the predicted propene selectivity at equal partial pressures of propane and propene would only be ∼80%. In other words, it is very challenging to accurately quantify all reaction products from the N2O/NOx type active site. Also, the proposed catalyst is expected to generate C3H7˙ radicals that can trigger gas phase reactions as experimentally speculated and that can dissociate into the experimentally observed C2H4 and CH3˙ radical.
To understand why our proposed N2O/NOx active site is active for H abstraction in the ODHP reaction, it is important to note that the N2O/NOx active site consists of a bent N2O like structure. Due to the bent nature (gas phase N2O is linear), we observe charge separation within the active site and charge transfer during abstraction of the H atom from propane during catalysis. Specifically, Fig. S11 of the ESI† illustrates results from a Bader charge analysis of the atoms of the active site of BNNR13O (IM7) during catalysis. Clearly, the distant N and O-atoms of the bent N2O active site are highly negatively charged, polarizing propane. Furthermore, the active site can accept more electrons from the dissociating propane in the transition state, TS8, and the product state, IM9, illustrating the ability of the active site to perform redox chemistry.
As already mentioned earlier, we are also interested in the stability of the proposed N2O/NOx sites with regards to desorption of gas-phase molecules. Thus, the relative free energies for desorption of two NO molecules from 13O (IM7), one N2O molecule from 12O (IM14) and one N2 molecule from 11O (IM21) were computed at 800 K using the same energy reference of our proposed reaction network (see Fig. 4). The partial pressures of N2, N2O and NO were set to 0.55 atm, 0.001 atm and 0.001 atm, respectively, as discussed in section 3.1. Fig. 4 shows that the final structure after removal of two NO molecules from 13O (IM7), designated as 13O–2NO and shown in purple square in Fig. 4, is 1 eV higher in free energy than the propane activation barrier (TS8) on 13O. Similarly, the structure after one molecule of N2O desorption from 12O (IM14), designated as 12O–N2O and shown in orange square in Fig. 4, is 0.5 eV higher than the propane activation barrier (TS15) on the corresponding catalyst. Also, desorption of one molecule N2 from 11O (IM21) produces a structure (designated as 11O–N2 in Fig. 4) that is 1.3 eV less stable than 11O, but 0.4 eV lower in energy than the O2 dissociation barrier (TS22′) on 11O. We note however that N2 desorption also involves an energy barrier in which the edge N atoms of the bare five-membered ring of 11O are bonded to two different B atoms. Before desorption of these N atoms as a N2 molecule, they first produce a high energy structure where N2 is vertically bonded to one B atom (designated as IM@N2 in Fig. 4). The transition state to form IM@N2 (designated TS@N2 in Fig. 4) is 0.1 eV higher in energy than the O2 dissociation barrier (TS22′) on 11O. The optimized structures of the intermediates and TS involved in the N2 desorption pathway are provided in Fig. S7† and corresponding relative free energies and ZPE corrected energies are tabulated in Table S2 of the ESI.† Comparing the energy profile for N2 desorption (shown as pink dotted line in Fig. 4) form the bare edge five-membered ring of 11O to that of O2 adsorption and dissociation at the same site (shown in blue solid line in Fig. 4), one can deduce that it is more likely that O2 will bind and dissociate over 11O to reproduce 13O, rather than catalyst degradation through N2 desorption. In other words, we conclude that the proposed N2O/NOx active site does not favor its decomposition into the gas phase but rather reacts with propane to produce propene. Nevertheless, N2 desorption is potentially a pathway for slow catalyst deactivation as observed experimentally and increasing the partial pressure of N2 likely helps stabilizing the catalyst.
3.3. Insights from microkinetic modeling
In order to better understand the relative rates of the different catalytic cycles and to calculate other kinetic parameters for the ODHP reaction on the mzzBNNR catalyst under experimental reaction conditions, we developed a microkinetic model based on the DFT data and harmonic transition state theory that involves all pathways, i.e., path I, II, and III. All elementary steps of the proposed reaction network shown in Fig. 3 and 4 have been considered. In the microkinetic model, we used a temperature range from 723 K to 823 K and set the partial pressures of the reactant gas molecules to PC3H8 = 0.3 atm and PO2 = 0.15 atm to maintain consistency with the experimental reaction conditions.14,15,19
The results obtained from the microkinetic analysis of the overall reaction network are summarized and compared with available experimental data in Table 1. The 33 elementary reactions along with the ZPE corrected reaction energies and forward activation barriers are summarized in Table S3 of the ESI.† The forward rate and equilibrium constants for all the elementary reactions, and the surface coverages calculated at three different temperatures (748 K, 798 K and 823 K) are summarized in Tables S4 and S5 of the ESI,† respectively. The overall turnover frequencies (TOFs) calculated in the temperature range of 748–823 K are on the order of 10−2 s−1 which suggest that the proposed N2O/NOx-type active sites on the mzzBNNR catalyst can exhibit a high activity for the ODHP reaction at these conditions. The individual reaction rates of the different reaction cycles predicted from the microkinetic analysis of the overall network in the temperature range of 748 K to 823 K are also tabulated in Table 1. These rates indicate that path II, involving 13O and 11O, is the dominant catalytic cycle for the overall ODHP activity of our proposed catalyst, which is consistent with the free energy profile shown in Fig. 4. The lower rates observed for the other two cycles starting from 14O (path I) and 12O (path III) can be explained based on the stability of these structures computed by ab initio thermodynamic calculations and shown in Fig. 2(a) and (b). These plots show that the structure 12O, where every five-membered ring on the N-edge is occupied by one O atom, is the most stable structure under ODHP reaction conditions and the relative free energies do not change much when adding more O atoms to this structure. For a catalytic cycle between 14O and 12O, the effective free energy barrier of the O2 dissociation process on 12O to regenerate 14O was found to be as high as 2.76 eV (Fig. 4) which leads to four order of magnitude lower rates than the catalytic cycle starting from 13O. The O2 dissociation process on the 11O structure, which leads to the 13O structure, exhibits a much lower activation barrier (1.74 eV), due to the highly favorable thermodynamic driving force for this reaction as shown in Fig. 2b. Although this process is both thermodynamically and kinetically even more favorable in path III involving 12O and 10O, the forward process, i.e., the creation of each oxygen vacancy from 12O, is highly endergonic. The high endothermicity of the oxygen vacancy formation process in path III results in an overall higher activation barrier for the second propane activation on 11O leading again to a lower ODHP reaction rate for this catalytic cycle.
Table 1 The turnover frequency (TOF), apparent activation energy (Eapp), and reaction orders calculated from a microkinetic reactor analysis of the proposed overall ODHP reaction
Reaction pathway TOF (s−1) Eapp (eV) Rate-limiting step Reaction order (T = 798 K)
748 K 798 K 823 K C3H8 O2
Overall reaction 1.4 × 10−2 5.1 × 10−2 8.8 × 10−2 1.34 1st C–H cleavage of C3H8 on the catalyst 0.9 0.0
Path I: 14O to 12O cycle 1.4 × 10−6 6.3 × 10−6 1.5 × 10−5
Path II: 13O to 11O cycle 1.4 × 10−2 5.1 × 10−2 8.8 × 10−2
Path III: 12O to 10O cycle 1.2 × 10−6 1.1 × 10−5 2.9 × 10−5
Experimental 2.62a Propane activationc 2.0a,c 0.5c
1.91b
a See ref. 14. b See ref. 15. c See ref. 18.
A degree of rate control analysis45–47 on the overall reaction network suggests that the first C–H cleavage of adsorbed C3H8 on the 13O structure is the rate controlling step of the overall reaction, which is consistent with the corresponding highest effective barrier (TS8) observed for path II (13O → 11O → 13O cycle) in the free energy profile of Fig. 4. This result agrees well with the experimental prediction of Shi et al.18 that the total rate of the ODHP reaction on the boron nitride catalyst is determined by the activation of propane, an observation that is based on the observation of a kinetic H/D isotopic effect of 1.4–1.5. The next step in this study was to calculate the apparent activation barrier of 1.34 eV from the Arrhenius plot shown in Fig. 7, which is somewhat smaller than the reported experimental barrier of 2.62 eV and 1.91 eV.14,15 Furthermore, our calculations predicted a near first-order dependence on C3H8 and zero-order dependence on O2 (see Fig. S8 of the ESI†) which also seems to disagree with the second-order dependence on C3H8 and half-order on O2 reported by previous experimental studies.14,15,18 It is worth mentioning though that the microkinetic reactor analysis used in this current study involves only the elementary steps of ODHP reactions that occur on the BNNR edge. In the previous section, we discussed the possibility of gas phase C3H7˙ radical generation, which can trigger a gas phase ODHP reaction at high temperatures as experimentally hypothesized. In fact, the same rate limiting step identified for the catalytic ODHP reaction is also responsible for the generation of the C3H7˙ radical that could split into the experimentally observed C2H4 and CH3˙ radical.48 Thus, we believe that the discrepancy in the reaction orders and apparent activation barrier between our current study and the experimental reports could originate from the occurrence of a gas phase ODHP reaction at high temperature in parallel to the surface catalyzed reaction considered here. We note that inclusion of a gas-phase reaction mechanism in our reaction model is beyond the scope of this study, given that such a coupled gas and solid phase model requires knowledge of the gas phase volume relative to the number of active surface sites, and consideration of heat, mass, and momentum transfer specific for the experimental reactor and reaction conditions. We note however that gas phase reactions can be suppressed experimentally by heating the catalyst-support system under microwave (MW) irradiation. It is well established that for materials with good microwave absorption properties, large and stable temperature differences of approximately 50 K between a colder gas phase and a hot solid can be established, helping to avoid undesired gas phase reactions.51,52 Ramirez et al. have recently applied MW heating to increase the selectivity to propylene in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over SiC monolithic reactors coated with a VMgO catalyst, by avoiding undesired gas phase reactions.52 We note that the microwave absorption properties of BN can be improved through suitable multilayer graphene/BN or BN/SiC nanoparticle hybrid formation.53,54 It is under these conditions that it would be very interested in knowing whether the experimentally determined kinetic parameters in the microwave reactor are closer to those predicted by us and thus, that they differ significantly from those measured in a conventional reactor.
Fig. 7 Arrhenius plot for the overall reaction, revealing an apparent activation energy of 1.34 eV in a temperature range of 723 to 823 K, and PC3H8 = 0.3 atm, PO2 = 0.15 atm.
Next, we note that another reason for the discrepancy in experimentally measured apparent activation barrier and reaction orders relative to our predicted data is the (in our opinion) high likelihood that the experimentally determined kinetic parameters include at least two material processes: (i) the catalysis on the active site and (ii) the creation of the active site. If the latter is a function of propane and oxygen concentration and temperature, e.g., more active sites are present at higher temperatures, then higher apparent activation barriers and reaction orders are measured than those corresponding to the catalytic cycle on the active sites that are determined by our models. In particular, we note that the very high apparent activation barrier of 2.62 eV measured by Grant et al.14,15 (which is nearly twice as large as the one predicted by us of 1.34 eV) can hardly originate only from the catalytic cycle. Due to the entropy penalty of gas phase adsorption at 800 K, our computed effective free energy barrier is 2.24 eV (see Fig. 4 and 5). In other words, even in the most favorable circumstances of no entropic penalty in the experimentally measured catalytic cycle, the active site measured by Grant et al. would be 0.38 eV or approximately a factor of 250 (at 800 K) less active than our identified N2O/NOx site if the measurement would exclusively involve processes in the catalytic cycle. Such a rate would likely be too low for a practical catalyst and it is more likely that the experimentally measured kinetic parameters contain in addition to the catalytic cycle, processes that are involved in the creation of the active site. Thus, it is not surprising that our computationally predicted kinetic parameters do not agree with those measured. We note however that our predicted selectivity agrees well with the measurements and that selectivity is only a function of the reaction mechanism on the surface (and in the gas phase).
Finally, we note here that we used standard DFT with the PBE functional to explore the ODHP reaction over a N2O/NOx-type active site. To examine the effect of van der Waals interactions and a different DFT functional on the ODHP reaction, a full optimization with SCAN+rVV10 (ref. 36 and 37) and PBE-D3 functional were carried out for the most critical elementary steps of path I (see Fig. 4), i.e., the first C–H cleavage of C3H8 on the catalyst and direct dissociation of O2 over BNNR12O to reproduce the catalyst BNNR14O. The calculated results using PBE-D3 and SCAN+rVV10 functionals are compared with the PBE results in Table S6 of the ESI.† Both the PBE-D3 and SCAN+rVV10 predicted very similar structures for the IMs and TSs (as shown by the bond distances involved in the TSs in Table S6 and the fully optimized structures in Fig. S9 of the ESI†) for these elementary steps as found by the PBE functional. The data in Table S6† suggest that SCAN+rVV10 predict slightly higher reaction barriers (∼0.2 eV) than PBE while at the same time slightly destabilizing (∼0.1 eV) the most stable intermediate (12O) of that cycle. In contrast, fully optimized PBE-D3 calculations predict a somewhat lower (∼0.2 eV) reaction barrier for TS1 relative to PBE but a slightly higher energy (∼0.1 eV) for IM14 and TS15′. While the PBE results agree somewhat better with the SCAN+rVV10 results, we nevertheless investigated the effect of D3 correction on the microkinetic model by correcting the rate constants based on PBE with single point PBE-D3 energies. We note that the PBE-D3 energies and geometries of PBE-D3 and PBE optimized structures shown in Table S6 and Fig. S9† differ by less than 0.003 eV. Fig. S12† illustrates the PBE-D3 computed free energy profile that corresponds to Fig. 4, and Table S7† summarizes the ZPE corrected PBE-D3 computed reaction energies and forward activation barriers. Next, Tables S8 and S9† illustrate the rate and equilibrium constants for all elementary reactions and the surface coverages of the microkinetic model at three different temperatures (748 K, 798 K and 823 K), respectively. In agreement to our previous PBE results, the PBE-D3 corrected microkinetic model (see Table S10†) suggests that path II is the dominant mechanism and the first C–H cleavage in propane is rate controlling. Also, the apparent activation barrier and the reaction orders remain essentially unchanged. Only the overall predicted activity of the N2O/NOx-type active site is predicted to be about two orders of magnitude higher in the PBE-D3 corrected model relative to the PBE model. Thus, it is our expectation that the trends, rates, and conclusions reported in this paper for the ODHP on a N2O/NOx-type active site will not be overtly affected by the DFT functional.
4. Conclusions
In summation, combining DFT with microkinetic modeling techniques, we systematically investigated the ODHP reaction on oxygen passivated boron nitride nanoribbons (BNNRs) to identify a likely active site, as well as the reaction mechanism for the ODHP under experimental reaction conditions. BNNRs with three different edges such as (1) armchair edge (armBNNR), (2) zigzag edge (zzBNNR), and (3) modified zigzag edge (mzzBNNR) were considered. mzzBNNR is much less stable than armchair and zigzag BNNR in the bare form with the stability order: armBNNR > zzBNNR > mzzBNNR. However, a constrained thermodynamic analysis suggests that the mzzBNNR is the most stable structure in the presence of adsorbed oxygen and the stability order reverses to: O@mzzBNNR > O@zzBNNR > O@armBNNR. Thus, the least stable bare BN edge can eventually become the most stable edge structure after oxygen adsorption under experimental reaction conditions. Further analysis revealed that the B-edge of mzzBNNR prefers to be fully passivated with O atoms forming six membered rings, while the N-edge prefers to have only one adsorbed O atom per five-membered ring under the experimental reaction conditions considered here. Calculations predicted that the O passivated B-edge of mzzBNNR is inactive for propane activation, whereas the O passivated five-membered N-edge of mzzBNNR, with a N2O/NOx-type active site, can selectively catalyze the ODHP reaction.
To study the mechanism of the ODHP reaction over this N2O/NOx-type active site, we focused on a redox pathway in which C3H8 molecules react with the catalyst forming C3H6 and H2O molecules and leaving oxygen “vacancies” on the BNNR edge. These oxygen vacancies can be replenished by dissociative adsorption of O2. Since our thermodynamic analysis predicted similar energies for the structures, BNNR12O, BNNR13O, and BNNR14O, three catalytic cycles were examined starting with each of these structures. Our microkinetic reactor analysis for the overall reaction network predicted a high TOF on the order of 10−2 s−1 in the temperature range of 748 to 823 K for a catalytic reaction cycle between BNNR13O and BNNR11O, implying high activity of the N2O/NOx-type active site for ODHP. The reaction cycle between BNNR14O and BNNR12O was found to be inhibited by a high activation barrier required for the O2 dissociation process on BNNR12O. In the case of a catalytic cycle between BNNR12O and BNNR10O, the energy required to create a second oxygen vacancy seems to be the limiting factor for its activity. A degree of rate control analysis suggested that the overall rate is controlled by the initial activation of propane which agrees well with experimental observations. However, the calculated apparent activation barrier and reaction orders were found to be somewhat different from the experimental reports which could be explained by the experiments measuring both the effect of temperature and species partial pressure on (i) the catalysis of the active site and (ii) the creation of the active site which is likely reaction condition dependent. Alternatively, gas phase reactions occurring in parallel to the surface catalyzed reactions might explain the reason for this discrepancy. In fact, calculations predicted that the rate limiting propane activation step can also generate a gas phase C3H7˙ radical on the N2O/NOx-type active site on the BNNR edge under the reaction conditions considered here, which in turn can trigger a gas phase ODHP reaction as experimentally speculated. Importantly and in agreement with experimental observations, the N2O/NOx-type active site on the BNNR edge is selective for propene production, having a 0.2 eV higher barrier for propene activation relative to propane activation. Overall, the results imply that the proposed N2O/NOx-type active site on the BNNR edge is highly active and selective for the ODH of propane suggesting that nitrogen is possibly an essential element for this reaction. These results do not contradict the experimental reports hypothesizing that boron is the essential element, rather they show the importance of both N and B and a N2O/NOx-type active site on BNNR for the ODHP. Thus, we would like to encourage experimental groups to study the ODH of propane over the said different boron-containing materials in the absence and presence of a molecular N2 environment to test our hypothesis. In addition, we would like to encourage experimental groups to use microwave (MW) irradiation to heat the solid BN catalyst selectively during reaction while suppressing possible gas phase reactions (due to the lower gas phase temperature). In this way, it should become possible to clearly determine the specific role and function of the solid catalyst versus gas-phase reactions.
Conflicts of interest
There are no conflicts to declare.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Catalysis Science program under contract DE-SC0007167. C. F. acknowledges financial support from the National Science Foundation under award number DGE-1250052. Partial support was also provided by the South Carolina Smart State Center for Strategic Approaches to the Generation of Electricity (SAGE). Computing resources from National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231, XSEDE resources provided by the San Diego Supercomputer Center (SDSC) and Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) under grant number TG-CTS090100, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (Ringgold ID 130367, Grant Proposals 50576 and 51163) and USC's High Performance Computing Group are gratefully acknowledged.
References
T. Ren , M. Patel and K. Blok , Energy, 2006, 31 , 425 —451 CrossRef CAS .
E. G. Rightor and C. L. Tway , Catal. Today, 2015, 258 , 226 —229 CrossRef CAS .
C. Carrero , R. Schlögl , I. Wachs and R. Schomäcker , ACS Catal., 2014, 4 , 3357 —3380 CrossRef CAS .
E. Heracleous , M. Machli , A. A. Lemonidou and I. A. Vasalos , J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem., 2005, 232 , 29 —39 CrossRef CAS .
A. Corma , F. Melo , L. Sauvanaud and F. Ortega , Catal. Today, 2005, 107 , 699 —706 CrossRef .
J. J. Sattler , J. Ruiz-Martinez , E. Santillan-Jimenez and B. M. Weckhuysen , Chem. Rev., 2014, 114 , 10613 —10653 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Leveles , K. Seshan , J. Lercher and L. Lefferts , J. Catal., 2003, 218 , 296 —306 CrossRef CAS .
Y.-M. Liu , Y. Cao , N. Yi , W.-L. Feng , W.-L. Dai , S.-R. Yan , H.-Y. He and K.-N. Fan , J. Catal., 2004, 224 , 417 —428 CrossRef CAS .
S. Vajda , M. J. Pellin , J. P. Greeley , C. L. Marshall , L. A. Curtiss , G. A. Ballentine , J. W. Elam , S. Catillon-Mucherie , P. C. Redfern and F. Mehmood , Nat. Mater., 2009, 8 , 213 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
M. A. De León , C. De Los Santos , L. Latrónica , A. M. Cesio , C. Volzone , J. Castiglioni and M. Sergio , Chem. Eng. J., 2014, 241 , 336 —343 CrossRef .
M. D. Putra , S. M. Al-Zahrani and A. E. Abasaeed , Catal. Commun., 2011, 14 , 107 —110 CrossRef CAS .
E. McFarland Science, 2012, 338 , 340 —342 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. A. Ayandiran , I. A. Bakare , H. Binous , S. Al-Ghamdi , S. A. Razzak and M. M. Hossain , Catal. Sci. Technol., 2016, 6 , 5154 —5167 RSC .
J. T. Grant , C. A. Carrero , F. Goeltl , J. Venegas , P. Mueller , S. P. Burt , S. E. Specht , W. P. McDermott , A. Chieregato and I. Hermans , Science, 2016, 354 , 1570 —1573 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Shi , D. Wang , W. Song , D. Shao , W. P. Zhang and A. H. Lu , ChemCatChem, 2017, 9 , 1788 —1793 CrossRef CAS .
L. Shi , B. Yan , D. Shao , F. Jiang , D. Wang and A.-H. Lu , Chin. J. Catal., 2017, 38 , 389 —395 CrossRef CAS .
L. Shi , D. Wang and A.-H. Lu , Chin. J. Catal., 2018, 39 , 908 —913 CrossRef CAS .
L. Shi , Y. Wang , B. Yan , W. Song , D. Shao and A.-H. Lu , Chem. Commun., 2018, 54 , 10936 —10946 RSC .
J. T. Grant , W. P. McDermott , J. M. Venegas , S. P. Burt , J. Micka , S. P. Phivilay , C. A. Carrero and I. Hermans , ChemCatChem, 2017, 9 , 3623 —3626 CrossRef CAS .
J. M. Venegas , W. P. McDermott and I. Hermans , Acc. Chem. Res., 2018, 51 , 2556 —2564 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. M. Love , B. Thomas , S. E. Specht , M. P. Hanrahan , J. M. Venegas , S. P. Burt , J. T. Grant , M. C. Cendejas , W. P. McDermott , A. J. Rossini and I. Hermans , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2019, 141 , 182 —190 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. M. Venegas and I. Hermans , Org. Process Res. Dev., 2018, 22 , 1644 —1652 CrossRef CAS .
P. Chaturbedy , M. Ahamed and M. Eswaramoorthy , ACS Omega, 2018, 3 , 369 —374 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. Annamalai , Y. L. Liu and P. Deshlahra , ACS Catal., 2019, 9 , 10324 —10338 CrossRef CAS .
D. Golberg , Y. Bando , T. Sato , N. Grobert , M. Reyes-Reyes , H. Terrones and M. Terrones , J. Chem. Phys., 2002, 116 , 8523 —8532 CrossRef CAS .
L. Cao , X. Zhang , C. Gao , W. Wang , Z. Zhang and Z. Zhang , Nanotechnology, 2003, 14 , 931 CrossRef CAS .
J. A. Loiland , Z. Zhao , A. Patel and P. Hazin , Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2019, 58 , 2170 —2180 CrossRef CAS .
J. Tian , J. Tan , M. Xu , Z. Zhang , S. Wan , S. Wang , J. Lin and Y. Wang , Sci. Adv., 2019, 5 , eaav8063 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
H. Li , J. Zhang , P. Wu , S. Xun , W. Jiang , M. Zhang , W. Zhu and H. Li , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2019, 123 , 2256 —2266 CrossRef CAS .
G. Kresse and J. Furthmüller , Comput. Mater. Sci., 1996, 6 , 15 —50 CrossRef CAS .
G. Kresse and J. Furthmüller , Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys., 1996, 54 , 11169 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
J. P. Perdew , K. Burke and M. Ernzerhof , Phys. Rev. Lett., 1996, 77 , 3865 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
P. E. Blöchl Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys., 1994, 50 , 17953 CrossRef PubMed .
H. J. Monkhorst and J. D. Pack , Phys. Rev. B: Solid State, 1976, 13 , 5188 CrossRef .
S. Grimme , J. Antony , S. Ehrlich and H. Krieg , J. Chem. Phys., 2010, 132 , 154104 CrossRef PubMed .
J. Sun , A. Ruzsinszky and J. P. Perdew , Phys. Rev. Lett., 2015, 115 , 036402 CrossRef PubMed .
H. Peng , Z.-H. Yang , J. P. Perdew and J. Sun , Phys. Rev. X, 2016, 6 , 041005 Search PubMed .
G. Henkelman , B. P. Uberuaga and H. Jónsson , J. Chem. Phys., 2000, 113 , 9901 —9904 CrossRef CAS .
G. Henkelman and H. Jónsson , J. Chem. Phys., 2000, 113 , 9978 —9985 CrossRef CAS .
R. Olsen , G. Kroes , G. Henkelman , A. Arnaldsson and H. Jónsson , J. Chem. Phys., 2004, 121 , 9776 —9792 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. Heyden , A. T. Bell and F. J. Keil , J. Chem. Phys., 2005, 123 , 224101 CrossRef PubMed .
S. C. Ammal and A. Heyden , J. Chem. Phys., 2010, 133 , 164703 CrossRef PubMed .
J. K. Nørskov , J. Rossmeisl , A. Logadottir , L. Lindqvist , J. R. Kitchin , T. Bligaard and H. Jonsson , J. Phys. Chem. B, 2004, 108 , 17886 —17892 CrossRef .
P. W. Atkins Physical Chemistry , Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1998, Search PubMed .
S. Kozuch and S. Shaik , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2006, 128 , 3355 —3365 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
S. Kozuch and S. Shaik , J. Phys. Chem. A, 2008, 112 , 6032 —6041 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
C. Stegelmann , A. Andreasen and C. T. Campbell , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2009, 131 , 8077 —8082 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
X. Zhang , R. You , Z. Wei , X. Jiang , J. Yang , Y. Pan , P. Wu , Q. Jia , Z. Bao , L. Bai , M. Jin , B. Sumpter , V. Fung , W. Huang and Z. Wu , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2020, 59 , 8042 —8046 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
W.-D. Lu , D. Wang , Z. Zhao , W. Song , W.-C. Li and A.-H. Lu , ACS Catal., 2019, 9 , 8263 —8270 CrossRef CAS .
H. Yamataka , M. Aida and M. Dupuis , Chem. Phys. Lett., 1999, 300 , 583 —587 CrossRef CAS .
A. Ramirez , J. L. Hueso , M. Abian , M. Alzueta , R. Mallada and J. Santamaria , Sci. Adv., 2019, 5 , eaau9000 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
A. Ramirez , J. L. Hueso , R. Mallada and J. Santamaria , Chem. Eng. J., 2020, 393 , 124746 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Bai , B. Zhong , Y. Yu , M. Wang , J. Zhang , B. Zhang , K. Gao , A. Liang , C. Wang and J. Zhang , npj 2D Mater. Appl., 2019, 3 , 1 —10 CrossRef CAS .
H. Pang , W. Pang , B. Zhang and N. Ren , J. Mater. Chem. C, 2018, 6 , 11722 —11730 RSC .
Footnote
† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available: Comparison of Gibbs free energy variation with O adsorption that start from B-edge and N-edge (Fig. S1), different possible configurations and relative free energies after first C–H cleavage of C3H8 on the catalyst (Fig. S2 and Table S1), energy profiles of overall ODHP reaction (Fig. S3), possible H atom rearrangement pathways (Fig. S4 and S6), TSs involved along the most crucial 13O → 11O → 13O reaction cycle of the overall reaction network (Fig. S5), IMs and TS of N2 desorption pathway (Fig. S7), effect of partial pressure of reactant gases on the reaction rate (Fig. S8), comparison of results obtained using PBE, PBE-D3, and SCAN+rVV10 functionals (Fig. S9 and Table S6), Gibbs free energy (ΔGads) of B loss (Fig. S10), calculated Bader charges (Fig. S11), free energy profiles with PBE-D3 (Fig. S12), Arrhenius plot with PBE-D3 (Fig. S13), effect of partial pressure of reactant gases on the reaction rate with PBE-D3 (Fig. S14), relative (free) energies of propene activation barriers, C3H7˙ radical formation, NO desorption, N2O desorption, and N2 desorption pathway, respectively (Table S2), reaction energies and activation barriers for all the elementary steps involved in the microkinetic model (Table S3), forward rate constants and equilibrium constants calculated at different temperatures (Table S4), surface coverages of various intermediates calculated at different temperatures (Table S5), reaction energies and activation barriers for all the elementary steps involved in the microkinetic model with PBE-D3 (Table S7), forward rate constants and equilibrium constants calculated at different temperatures with PBE-D3 (Table S8), surface coverages of various intermediates calculated at different temperatures with PBE-D3 (Table S9), results from microkinetic model with PBE-D3 (Table S10). See DOI: 10.1039/d0cy01031f
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2020
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
