I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Propane oxidative dehydrogenation on Cs-doped Cr-Mo-Al-O catalyst: kinetics and mechanism
Abstract
Previous kinetic study reports on oxidative dehydrogenation (OXD) have suggested different mechanismsMars-van Krevelen (MV), LangmuirHinshelwood (LH) and Ridealdepending on the nature of the catalyst. Earlier, we have demonstrated that Cs-Cr-Mo-Al-O is active and selective as a catalyst in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (POD). Here results of the reaction kinetic study on the catalyst at 300340 C are reported. Propane is oxidatively dehydrogenated to propene. Carbon dioxide is also produced directly from propane. Further oxidation of propene produced mainly CO. Rates of propane consumption and propene production are not significantly affected by changes in oxygen partial pressure, indicating a Mars-van Krevelen reaction mechanism. On the other hand, rates of CO2 and CO productions have shown strong dependence on the partial pressure. Thus, oxygen species of difference types may be involve in the two cases.
1. Introduction
Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene is an important attempt towards developing an alternative or complement to existing propane dehydrogenation processes. A process based on oxidative dehydrogenation (OXD) has potential advantages such as low energy consumption and no catalyst regeneration requirement. In previous report, we have demonstrated that alumina-supported Cs-doped CrMo oxide has potential as a catalyst for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (POD). It exhibited the best performance among the samples tested [1]. The important improvements in performances are higher selectivity to propene and lower CO than CO2 on the Cs-doped sample compared to chromium oxide/γ-Al2O3. This was shown to be due to modifications in the redox properties of the promoted catalyst. It may also possess low electrophilic oxygen species thereby improving the selectivity to propene. Therefore, this shows that it is possible to reduce deep oxidation by appropriately changing the composition of the catalyst based on the understanding of the interaction between the hydrocarbons and catalyst surface adsorbed species.
The interaction between the propane, propyl species or propene and catalyst surface can be further understood by studying the kinetics and mechanistic network of the reaction on the catalyst. Although several catalytic systems have been tested and reported for OXD, only a few of the reports consider the kinetic aspects of the reaction [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9]. Supported transition metal oxides are usually used to activate the alkanes and dioxygen. The activation of the alkane is believed to be by the rate-determining abstraction of hydrogen atom to form alkyl species [10]. Further reactions that determine selectivities depend partly on the position of the hydrogen atom on the alkyl group (i.e. on primary, secondary or tertiary carbon) involved in the reaction. Depending on the catalyst employed, the reaction may be with lattice oxygen, thus following the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism [11], [12]. Another study indicated that reaction of adsorbed alkane with the adsorbed oxygen occurred, thereby following the LangmuirHinshelwood (LH) mechanism [13]. Reaction of adsorbed alkane with gas phase oxygen has also been reported [14]. In yet another study, the mechanism was shown to involve desorbed propyl radicals with gas phase oxygen [6].
It is apparent that the kinetics and mechanisms depend on the catalytic system used in the studies. Generally, the catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and other lower alkanes over V-Mg-O catalysts produces mainly dehydrogenation and combustion products [3], [6], [11]. Similar behavior in POD was reported on rare-earth-oxide-containing catalysts. No oxygenates were observed, although there was a significant formation of ethene [6]. In the same report, olefins and oxygenates were formed with significant selectivity for the reaction on B2O3/Al2O3. Molybdenum-based systems in addition to alkenes produce acrolein [15]. These differences are believed to be associated with the nature of the kinetics and mechanism of the reaction on the catalysts and are not well understood [10].
For instance, Kung and coworkers [5] have shown that the reaction of alkyl species that leads to either dehydrogenation products or oxygenates follow different paths on V-based catalysts. On the other hand, Stern and Grasselli reported that after the rate determining step, a second homolytic primary CH bond breaking leads to propene. The propene is the intermediate to acrolein in the POD on Ni-Co-Mo catalyst [16]. These reports appear to be contradictory [17]. However, whether the reactions leading to alkenes and/or oxygenates are in series or parallel depends on the nature of the catalysts and the hydrocarbon to oxygen ratio. Generally, oxidation reactions on transition metal oxides take place mainly by two different mechanismsintrafacial and suprafacial [18]. The former involves reaction with lattice oxygen while the latter involves reaction with adsorbed oxygen on the catalysts. Controlling the suprafacial reaction is important in increasing the propene yield.
In this report, results of a brief study on the kinetics and mechanistic networks of the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over Cs-doped CrMo/Al2O3 are discussed. This may help towards further understanding of the catalytic process. Based on this understanding, the composition of the catalyst and/or the operating conditions of the reaction could be modified to improve the yield to the desired products.
2. Experimental
The catalysts were tested in a fixed-bed, quartz laboratory reactor, operated at atmospheric pressure, temperature ranges of 300340 C and feed flow rate of 75 cm3/minmixture of propane, oxygen and helium as a diluent. The reactor was a 70 mm long quartz tube of 7 mm internal diameter (i.d.) tapered to a 2-mm i.d. This removes the reaction gases from the reaction zone as fast as possible, thereby minimizing possible gas phase reactions. The temperature of the catalyst bed was monitored by a thermocouple placed on the reactor wall from outside. A temperature controller (Omega CN3000) was used to monitor the temperature. The actual temperature of the catalyst bed was calibrated in a separate experiment using a second thermocouple positioned in the center of the catalyst bed. This is the reaction temperature reported. The gases were of high purity, propane (99.99%), oxygen (99.99%), and helium (99.99%) obtained from Linde. They were supplied from cylinders at laboratory temperature, passed through microfilters for additional purification and delivered to the reactor preheat zone. Omega electronic mass flow controllers controlled the gases. One gram of the 2040 mesh size granules of each of the catalysts was each placed in the reaction zone of the reactor and supported on quartz wool directly above the junction of this section with the bottom. In each case, the catalyst was pretreated in a stream of oxygen for 3045 min, at 450 C. The line was then evacuated with helium at the same temperature for 30 min. Thereafter; the reactant gases were metered through the reactor at desired compositions and temperatures.
A gas chromatograph (HP6890) was used for an online analysis of both the feed and products streams. The products flowed directly through a heat-traced line to the GC sampling valve. The hydrocarbons; CH4, C2H6, C2H4, C3H8 C3H6, C4H10 and C4H8 were separated by HP-PLOT column and analyzed with flame ionization detector (FID), while O2, CO and CO2 were separated by MS and HayeSep-R column and analyzed with thermal conductivity detector (TCD). All GC analyses were performed online by softwareHP Chemstationprovided with the equipment.
The catalyst particles sizes range and reaction temperature were chosen to minimize mass transfer limitations, based on a separate preliminary experiment. Feed composition was varied to obtain the conversions and selectivities, but the residence time was maintained at 0.60 s. A blank test without a catalyst or with quartz granules in the reactor showed negligible conversion of propane at the reaction conditions. Three runs were performed for each experimental point. The average values are reported. The values were reproducible within 6%. Thus, sets of kinetic data were collected with negligible deactivation and the catalyst was presumably at same condition. The products distributions were determined at low conversion (<8%) to maintain differential conditions in the reactor. Carbon balances were typically better than 95%. The performance of each catalyst is reported based on the following: conversion is defined as the mole fraction of feed carbon present in the reaction products, while selectivity is the fraction of product carbon in a particular product. Details on preparation of the catalystCs-doped 10 wt.% Cr-Mo (4:1)/γ-Al2O3and the experimental procedure are as described elsewhere [1], [19].
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Reaction network
The major products are propene and COX. Fig. 1 shows the change in selectivities to C3H6 and CO with propane conversion at 300 C. No CO2 was observed at this temperature. Extending a line through the selectivities to low conversion suggests that there is 100% selectivity to propene and 0% selectivity to CO at 0% conversion, thus indicating that propene is a primary product while CO is a secondary product. Propene is an exclusive primary product at the conditions used and CO is evidently produced by subsequent reaction of propene at higher conversions similar to earlier reports [18], [20], [21], [22]. The distribution of propene and CO is maintained at higher temperature (320 C) as shown in Fig. 2. Extending the selectivities to 0% conversion shows that CO is a secondary product. In addition, CO2 is produced. The CO2 appears to maintain a finite selectivity at 0% conversion, with corresponding decrease in propene selectivity to about 95%. This suggests that as the temperature increases, catalyst sites or oxygen species responsible for deep oxidation of propane to CO2 are activated. It indicates that a high activity of lattice oxygen leads to overoxidation to CO2. It further shows that there are different and unique oxygen species associated with separate sites for production of propene and CO2. This is in addition to possible contributions from electrophilic attack on the propene by surface adsorbed oxygen at the higher temperatures. As shown in Fig. 3, increase in temperature to 340 C maintains the trends observed at lower temperatures. The low temperature observation is similar to that reported on NiComolybdate where it was concluded that propene was the exclusive primary product while CO and CO2 were solely produced by subsequent reaction of propene [16]. On the contrary, at high temperature CO2 could also be produced as a primary product as shown by the results at 340 C.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Change in selectivity with propane conversion at 300 C.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Change in selectivity with propane conversion at 320 C.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Change in selectivity with propane conversion at 340 C.
The results could be described by Scheme 1. After the rate-determining production of propyl species, further reaction of the propyl species determines the selectivity of the reaction [23], [24]. (i) The propyl species may react instantaneously by β-elimination to produce propene, as indicated by step 2. (ii) It may react with neighboring electrophilic surface adsorbed oxygen and/or lattice oxygen to produce COX as major product (path: 3  4  5  6). This depends on the activity of the oxygen and reaction temperature. Highly active oxygen, perhaps at high temperatures, may lead to production of COX [25]. No C2H4 was observed at the conditions employed. (iii) The reaction in (ii) could take place between propyl species and gas phase oxygen in the close vicinity of the catalyst surface and (iv) the propyl may move into the gas phase where further reactions take place [24]. Reactions (iii) and (iv) have been observed by Andersson [14] and Buyevskaya and Baerns [6], respectively.
Download : Download full-size image
Scheme 1.
The result tentatively shows that the reaction network involves propene as primary product and CO as a secondary product at low temperature, in agreement with earlier reports [18], [20], [21]. At higher temperature, the activity of lattice oxygen increases. This causes the further reaction of propyl species to COX thereby exhibiting CO2 with a finite selectivity at low conversion, thus suggesting that it is a primary product [22].
3.2. Reaction kinetics
Fig. 4, Fig. 5, Fig. 6, Fig. 7 show changes of rates of C3H8, C3H6, CO and CO2 with propane partial pressure (PP) at an oxygen partial pressure (PO) of 0.13 atm and reaction temperatures of 300340 C. The points indicate the experimental values while solid lines show the calculated rates. Fig. 4, Fig. 5 show variations in the rates of propane consumption and propene production with PP, respectively. The figures show first-order behavior at low partial pressure of propane. At higher partial pressure, the relation becomes non-linear, thereby following a Langmuir-type rate expression. This shows a typical ratepartial pressure relation for the oxidative dehydrogenation reactions on redox catalysts where one of the adsorbed reactants is in equilibrium with the gas phase. On the redox catalyst, the lattice oxygen has been shown to participate in the reaction [18], [20]. The rate depends mainly on PP. This is assuming that the lattice oxygen is replenished at a rate higher than or equal to that of removal. The rates of CO and CO2 production with PP are illustrated in Fig. 6, Fig. 7, respectively. The rates of both CO and CO2 show a non-linear increase with PP similar to Fig. 4, Fig. 5.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Dependence of propane consumption rate on propane partial pressure (PP) at oxygen partial pressure (PO) of 0.13 atm.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Dependence of propene production rate on PP at PO of 0.13 atm.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Dependence of CO production rate on PP at PO of 0.13 atm.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Dependence of CO2 production rate on PP at PO of 0.13 atm.
Fig. 8 shows that change in the rate of propane conversion is zero-order with respect to oxygen partial pressure. This is expected for the oxidation of hydrocarbon on redox metal oxide catalyst, assuming no mass transfer limitations. The reaction takes place between the adsorbed propane and lattice oxygen, thereby reducing the catalyst. If the rate of re-oxidation of the catalyst is fast compared with the rate of removal of lattice oxygen, the rate of propane reaction would be independent of PO. This can be observed in the figure, especially at low temperature and PO values of 0.060.2 atm. However, at higher temperatures, the rate appears to deviate from this trend, showing an increase with increase in oxygen partial pressure, especially at high values of PO. Similar trend could be observed in the case of propene production rate as shown in Fig. 9. On the other hand, the rate of CO production shows stronger dependence on PO as shown in Fig. 10. The rate increases with PO. This indicates that surface adsorbed oxygen in equilibrium with gas phase oxygen is involved in the production of CO. Fig. 11 displays the rate of CO2 formation which shows similar trends as CO with PO. No CO2 was produced at 300 C.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Dependence of propane consumption rate on PO at PP of 0.27 atm (line indicates model equation).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Dependence of propene production rate on PO at PP of 0.27 atm (line indicates model equation).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Dependence of CO production rate on PO at PP of 0.27 atm.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Dependence of CO2 production rate on PO at PP of 0.27 atm.
The trend for the rates of propane conversion and propene formation suggest that at low temperature the rate is independent of oxygen partial pressure, thus following a Mars-Van Krevelen (MV) type mechanism while as the temperature increases the rate of lattice oxygen removal becomes significant perhaps higher than the rate of re-oxidation. The rate of lattice oxygen mobility has been reported to increase with temperature [26]. Thus, as the temperature increases, perhaps and especially at higher oxygen partial pressure, the availability of lattice oxygen increases. The abstracting of hydrogen from both propane and propyl species increases thereby making the rate to deviate from Mar-van Krevelen mechanism.
3.3. Kinetics model
The different trends shown by the rates of propane consumption and COX production indicate that the two reactions occur by different mechanisms. Perhaps the main difference is in the type of oxygen involved in the reaction. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is described by a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism. LangmuirHinshelwood (LH) and RidealEley mechanisms were also tested, but found to be less satisfactory. The deep oxidation to COX, on the other hand, is described by a LH mechanism. The rates of CO and CO2 formation could be fitted to a rate expression with half-order in oxygen partial pressure indicating dissociative adsorption of oxygen on the catalyst surface. The experimental observations are shown as points while the calculated rates are shown by solid lines in Fig. 4, Fig. 5, Fig. 6, Fig. 7, Fig. 8, Fig. 9, Fig. 10, Fig. 11. There is good agreement between the calculated and observed rates. This suggests that the kinetic models are consistent with the experimental data within the condition studied. Values of model parameters are given in Table 1. The propane consumption rate is further analyzed using the MV rate expression given by Eq. (1) and its linear form in Eq. (2) [20]. The rate constants obtained are given in Table 2. Within the limit of calculation errors, the Arrhenius expression for the rate constant of propane consumption was used to evaluate the activation energy for the reaction giving a value of 18.8 kcal/mol. This is a typical value for propane oxidative dehydrogenation reactions [18], [20].
(1)
(2)
where k1 is the rate constant for propane consumption and k2 is the rate constant for catalyst reoxidation.
Table 1. Kinetic model parametersa for rates of propane consumption and propene, CO2 and CO production on CsCrMooxide/γ-Al2O3
Empty Cell
Temperature (C)
Empty Cell
300 320 340
× 107 (mol/g-cat s) 7.13 12.97 94.42
× 107 (mol/g-cat s) 4.95 8.75 65.13
× 107 (mol/g-cat s)  2.27 17.16
× 107 (mol/g-cat s) 7.52 6.82 20.58
(Pa1) 1.49 2.75 0.31
a
Data in Fig. 4, Fig. 5, Fig. 6, Fig. 7 are fitted to Langmuir-type rate expression,
, while the data in Fig. 10, Fig. 11 are fitted to
. In the table,
.
Table 2. Rate constants for propane consumptions fitted to Eq. (2)
Propane oxidation (rate constant, mol/g-cat s Pa) Reaction temperature (C)
Empty Cell
300 320 340
k1 × 109 1.69 3.56 4.93
k2 × 109 1.42 4.79 7.15
4. Conclusion
The alumina supported Cs-doped CrMo oxide has been found to be active in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. A study of the kinetics of the reaction on the catalyst at 1 atm and 300340 C shows that propane is oxidatively dehydrogenated to propene. CO appeared to be a secondary product produced from further oxidation of propene. CO2 exhibited a finite selectivity at low propane conversion, thus suggesting that it is mainly produced directly from propane. The rates of propane consumption, propene and COX production show Langmuir-type dependence on propane partial pressure. Propane consumption and propene production rates show no significant dependence on oxygen partial pressure. The COX rates were fitted to a half-order dependence relation in oxygen partial pressure indicating that the oxygen is dissociatively adsorbed on the catalyst surface. Although both propene and CO2 are primary products, the difference in their dependence in oxygen indicates that different types of oxygen are involved in their reactions paths.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


1. Does the article provide background information on the importance of propylene production through propane dehydrogenation in the chemical industry? What specific details are provided about the value and applications of propylene?
2. Does the article explain how catalysts facilitate propane dehydrogenation by lowering activation energy barriers? What specific mechanisms of catalyst activity are described?
3. Does the article introduce the major catalyst classes that have been explored for propane dehydrogenation, such as metal oxides, supported metals, alloys, and zeolites? What specific examples are provided?
4. Does the article discuss the thermodynamic constraints and kinetic factors involved in propane dehydrogenation? What quantitative details of thermodynamics and kinetics are provided?
5. Does the article describe how DFT calculations have been applied to study propane dehydrogenation mechanisms and pathways? What specific computational insights are revealed?
6. Does the article present microkinetic modeling efforts that have provided insights into propane dehydrogenation kinetics? What specific rate equations, parameters, and models are discussed?
7. Does the article describe computational or experimental work identifying descriptors that correlate catalyst properties to propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific structure-activity relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 