<DOCUMENT>
Comparing in Situ Carbon Tolerances of Sn-Infiltrated and BaO-Infiltrated Ni-YSZ Cermet Anodes in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Exposed to Methane
Abstract
Experiments performed in this work explored how Ni-YSZ cermet anodes infiltrated with 1% Sn or 1% BaO mitigate carbon formation compared to undoped Ni-YSZ anodes in functioning solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs). In situ vibrational Raman spectroscopy was used to study the early stages of carbon accumulation on the SOFC anodes at 730 °C with methane and under open circuit voltage (OCV) conditions. Additionally, carbon removal with different gas phase reforming agents was evaluated. The effects of these phenomena—carbon accumulation from methane and carbon removal by reforming agents—on the electrochemical capabilities of a device were monitored with electrochemical impedance and voltammetry measurements. Vibrational spectra showed that the undoped and 1% Sn infiltrated anodes were very susceptible to carbon formation from methane while considerably less carbon accumulated on the 1% BaO anodes. Electrochemical data, however, implied that carbon accumulated in different regions of the anode and that both Sn and BaO effectively reduced carbon accumulation but also inhibited electrochemical oxidation. For each anode, H2O was the most effective reforming agent for removing carbon followed by O2 and then CO2. H2O and CO2, however, left the anode only partially oxidized, while prolonged exposure to O2 completely oxidized Ni to nickel oxide. The spectroscopic and electrochemical data showed strong correlations that provide mechanistic insight into the consequences of adding secondary materials to SOFC anodes with the intent of reducing carbon accumulation.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Introduction
Jump To
Carbon accumulation in energy conversion devices and catalytic reactors leads to diminished performance and, ultimately, system failure. This concern becomes increasingly important in high temperature applications where complex gas-phase pyrolysis reactions and activated surface chemistry can result in rapid carbon deposition. (1-3) Deposited carbon can block catalytic sites and, in some instances, dissolve into the catalyst leading to a phenomenon known as metal dusting. (4-6) To prevent carbon from accumulating on catalysts, numerous strategies have been employed including gas phase reforming (with steam or CO2) and the development of novel catalysts. These catalysts include mixed bimetallic and/or metal–metal oxide materials (7-13) or traditional catalysts that are doped with small amounts (≤1–5%) of a secondary (2°) species. (4, 14-16)
Ni-based catalysts used in SOFCs are particularly sensitive to carbon-induced degradation. (17-19) SOFCs consist of two electrocatalytic electrodes separated by an ion-conducting, solid oxide electrolyte. Molecular oxygen is reduced at the cathode (to form O2–). The large activation energies required for O2 dissociation and for O2– diffusion through the solid electrolyte require that SOFCs operate at temperatures typically above 650 °C. One advantage conferred to SOFCs by these high temperatures is fuel flexibility. Unlike low-temperature fuel cells that use precious metal catalysts and can operate only with sources of clean hydrogen, SOFCs can convert a wide variety of fuels into products and electricity electrochemically. These fuels include natural gas, biogas, syn-gas, alcohols, and intermediate molecular weight alkanes. (17, 20-24) All of these fuels, however, are also capable of forming solid carbon deposits on functioning SOFC anodes.
Nickel is the most common electrocatalyst used in SOFC anodes and in steam reforming applications because it is very effective at activating carbon–hydrogen bonds. (25-27) The accumulation of carbon must be prevented (either chemically or electrochemically), however, or active sites will be blocked and/or gas diffusion (through the porous anode) hindered. Depending on the identity of the incident fuel and operating temperature, these carbon deposits or “coke” can assume different structures including carbon filaments, (28) highly ordered graphite, (29) or disordered carbon that has a high density of grain boundaries and/or site defects. (30, 31) The Ni catalyst is also susceptible to metal dusting where the SOFC anode simply disintegrates resulting in device failure. (31)
Recent reports have suggested that doping Ni-based catalysts with small amounts of 2° metals suppresses carbon accumulation. (32-37) Specifically, Ni anodes infiltrated with Sn have shown improved carbon tolerance in steam reforming applications, (38-41) although recent reports have shown that small amounts (1–5 mass %) of Sn added to SOFC electrodes appeared to enhance carbon accumulation and destabilize SOFC anodes over the course of several hours relative to undoped electrodes. (38, 42) Coking of conventional Ni cermet electrodes has been explored extensively by numerous groups using a variety of in situ and ex situ techniques. (43-49) Conversely, studies of infiltrated Ni-YSZ anodes have been limited mostly to methods unable to directly identify changes in anode structure and composition during operation. Techniques such as temperature-programmed oxidation (33, 50-52) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (20, 38) provide insight into how infiltrated anode structures change following operation under different conditions. Conclusions about the mechanisms responsible for electrochemical oxidation and anode degradation remain speculative, however, given that post mortem data do not report on chemical changes and their effects on electrochemical performance in real time. An advantage to coupling in situ techniques such as vibrational spectroscopy (53-55) with electrochemical measurements is that the material evolution of the SOFC anode can be related directly to the electrochemical condition of the device itself.
Studies described in this work used in situ vibrational Raman spectroscopy coupled with voltammetry measurements to examine directly the early stages of carbon formation from methane exposure at 730 °C on undoped Ni-YSZ cermet anodes and Ni-YSZ cermet anodes infiltrated with Sn or BaO (both 1 mass % with respect to Ni). Experiments also characterized the ability of different reforming agents (H2O, CO2, and O2) to remove carbon after it accumulated on the three different anode types. Spectroscopic data were coupled with electrochemical measurements that monitored OCV as a function of local gas phase conditions. Results show that while anode infiltration can mitigate carbon accumulation in the electrochemically active region of the anode, carbon deposits will still form on the top anode surface exposed directly to the fuel stream. The 1% BaO infiltrated anode shows the greatest ability to suppress carbon formation but the intrinsic chemical activity of BaO also leads to undesirable Ni oxidation even in the absence of any applied polarization.
Experimental Methods
Jump To
Cell Fabrication and Assembly
Experiments described in this paper were performed on undoped and infiltrated samples that consisted of membrane electrode assemblies (MEAs) and Ni-YSZ cermet catalysts on YSZ substrates without cathodes (referred to as chip studies). Descriptions of the cell preparations have been given previously: Ni-YSZ, (56) 1% Sn-Ni-YSZ, (38) and 1% BaO-Ni-YSZ. (33) Briefly, electrolyte-supported cells with ∼100 μm thick anodes were used for this study. The anode powder was prepared by mixing NiO (50.6 wt %, Alfa Aesar, USA) with YSZ (43.1 wt %, TZ-8Y; Tosoh Co, Japan) and graphite (6.3 wt %, Alfa Aesar, USA) by ball milling in acetone for 24 h. The anode powder was mixed with glycerol and brush painted onto the electrolyte, followed by sintering at 1723 K for 2 h. The cathode powder was prepared by mixing La0.8Sr0.2MnO3 (40 wt %, LSM, Praxair Specialty Ceramics, USA) with YSZ (40 wt %) and graphite (20 wt %). The cathode powder was mixed with glycerol, applied on the other side of the electrolyte and sintered at 1523 K for 2 h. The thicknesses of the cathode (LSM-YSZ) and electrolyte (YSZ) were 80 and 600 μm, respectively. The areas of the anode and cathode were both 0.9 cm2.
Sn was incorporated into the porous, sintered NiO/YSZ anode-substrate by impregnating a solution of SnCl2·2H2O (Aldrich, USA) dissolved in ethanol, followed by calcination at 773 K for 4 h. BaO was incorporated by impregnating the anodes with an aqueous solution of Ba(NO3)2 (Alfa Aesar, USA) followed by calcination at 873 K in air to decompose the Ba(NO3)2 to BaO.
For the MEAs, a metal mesh connected to a gold wire was attached to each electrode with metal paste (Heraeus) and acted as the current collector during electrochemical measurements. A silver mesh with gold paste and a platinum mesh with platinum paste were used on the anode and cathode, respectively. The cathode side of the MEA was attached to an alumina tube using ceramic paste (552 VFG, Aremco, USA), such that the cathode and anode were exposed to the gases flowing inside and outside the alumina tube, respectively. For the MEAs, this acted as a seal to isolate the two electrode chambers. This assembly was placed in a quartz tube (Quark Glass), sealed at the bottom with a silicon stopper, and positioned inside of a tube furnace. The sample was then heated to 730 °C at a rate ≤1 °C/min with low flow rates of Ar and air on the anode and cathode, respectively.
Vibrational Raman Spectroscopy
Raman spectra were acquired in situ with a Renishaw InVia spectrometer and a custom-designed optical system. A 10× objective focused the 488 nm Ar ion excitation source (∼18 mW before the objective) onto the sample, and the backscattered light was directed through an edge filter (∼150 cm–1 cutoff), allowing for only Stokes scattered radiation to be measured by the charge-coupled device (CCD) detector. Vibrational Raman spectra were acquired continuously with a 10 s exposure per spectrum when recording kinetics data. Additional details about this assembly can be found in previously published reports. (55, 57)
Electrochemical Diagnostics
Voltammetry and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) data were collected with a Princeton Applied Research VersaStat MC. Cell potentials were recorded with reference to the reduction of O2 on the cathode resulting in OCV data with negative values. Device performance was evaluated with linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements and calculated power curves. To avoid damaging the MEA by drawing excessive current loads, LSV measurements were not carried out to the maximum current. The cell condition was assessed by the series (Rs) and polarization (Rp) impedances obtained from EIS data that were measured over a frequency range of 100 000–0.10 Hz with an ac voltage amplitude of 0.01 V. Impedance spectra were plotted on Nyquist plots where Rs is the purely resistive component at high frequencies associated with oxide ion transport through the electrolyte and electron transport in the current collectors and electrodes; and Rp is the impedance related to electrochemical reactions, fuel activation, and mass transport. (58) Additional analysis and modeling of the individual contributions to Rp were not explored in this study.
Procedure
Once the sample temperature had stabilized at 730 ± 5 °C, the pristine anode was reduced with 31 ± 1 mL/min H2, and benchmark electrochemical measurements were performed to assess how the addition of Sn and BaO affected the electrochemistry relative to the undoped Ni-YSZ sample. Throughout the course of an experiment, each sample underwent repeated cycling. A cycle (Figure 1) began by exposing the anode to 20 ± 1 mL/min CH4 for 10 min. The anode chamber was then purged with a continuous flow of Ar for 3–4 min before the addition of the gas oxidant (H2O, CO2, or O2) to remove the deposited carbon from the anode. To prevent the anode from fully oxidizing and suffering irreversible damage, exposure to O2 was limited to 3 min whereas exposure to H2O and CO2 lasted for 10 min. Near the end of an experiment the O2 was allowed to flow for 10 min and completely oxidize the anode. Upon completion of a cycle the anode was rereduced with H2. Electrochemical measurements were again performed (with H2) to characterize cell condition and record how (or if) the carbon formation/removal cycles affected device degradation over the course of an experiment.
In addition to experiments with functional SOFCs, chip studies were performed following the same protocol (excluding the electrochemical measurements) with flowing Ar on the side of the YSZ substrate opposite the Ni cermet catalyst. These tests were conducted to verify that the Raman data were not influenced by the air atmosphere (or leaks) on the cathode side of the functional SOFC MEA experiments. Since the Ni catalysts of the chip studies are structurally and compositionally equivalent to MEA anodes at OCV, they will be referred to as anodes throughout the remainder of this work.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic diagram showing the sequence of gas exposures during a single carbon formation/removal cycle. Both the CH4 and reforming agents were present at low partial pressures in an Ar carrier gas. Quantitative details related to residence times and gas flows are reported in Table 1.
Table 1 shows the flow rates and residence times for all three reforming agents between the point of introduction into the manifold and the anode. Variations in residence times result from adjustments in the gas handling manifold between experiments. Although the oxidant residence times ranged between 0.5 and 4.0 s, these times are less than the spectroscopic temporal resolution of 10 s.
Table 1. Representative Flow Parameters for Each MEA Experiment
oxidant flow ratea (mL/min) oxidant in gas flow (%) gas residence time (s)
Ni-YSZb
H2O 2 ± 0.1 2 1.1
CO2 13.4 11.2 1.9
O2 12.0 10.2 2.4
1% Sn-Ni-YSZ
H2O 4 ± 0.1 2 0.4
CO2 13.4 6.3 2.8
O2 13.4 6.3 3.4
1% BaO-Ni-YSZ
H2O 4 ± 0.1 2 0.5
CO2 13.4 6.3 1.6
O2 13.4 6.3 2.1
aUncertainties are ±0.5 mL/min unless stated otherwise.
bTests from previous studies exploring how flow rate effected carbon removal. (56)
All experiments were conducted with the MEA held at OCV. The cell potential was monitored continuously during each cycle with the various atmospheric conditions (including an Ar carrier gas flow rate of 200 ± 2 mL/min) above the anode and a constant flow of air (143 ± 2 mL/min) over the cathode. Under these conditions, any changes in the OCV can be attributed to reactions at the triple phase boundaries (TPBs) in the anode including charge transfer reactions, changes in anode composition, and relative concentrations of adsorbed and gas phase species. Experiments performed with full MEA assemblies at OCV and chips (with anodes only) led to carbon accumulation and removal kinetics that were consistent within experimental uncertainty.
We note that a leak between the cathode and anode would result in chemical (vs electrochemical) carbon and Ni oxidation and unstable electrochemical data; however, at the beginning of an experiment, a leak test was performed to ensure that the atmosphere above the anode was not affected by the cathode atmosphere. Additionally, the measured OCV values were similar for the H2 benchmark experiments performed after each cycle indicating that leaks did not form during experiments. Since these results support MEA structural integrity and atmosphere separation between the anode and cathode, we attribute changing spectroscopic and electrochemical data to surface chemistry specific to the anode materials.
Results and Discussion
Jump To
Studies described in this work examined several issues relevant to high temperature surface chemistry in SOFCs including the tendency of carbon to accumulate on Ni-based cermet anodes infiltrated with either Sn or BaO exposed to methane and the effects of carbon accumulation on device performance. Also explored was the ability of different reforming agents to remove accumulated carbon. Three different types of anodes were tested using two different techniques and three different reforming agents. For clarity, we separate the Results and Discussion section into two parts: the first part considers the impact of Sn and BaO on carbon formation, and the second part examines the effects of these dopants on carbon removal by reforming agents.
Carbon Formation with CH4
Results
Under H2 and prior to methane exposure, the cell OCV for the undoped cell and the 1% Sn infiltrated MEA were −1.22 ± 0.01 V while OCV for the 1% BaO infiltrated MEA was −1.17 ± 0.01 V. Distinct differences in the electrochemistry between each cell type were emphasized in LSV and EIS data. Representative results are shown in Figure 2. These data show that differences between the anodes existed both prior to any exposure to methane (Figure 2a,b) and persisted after repeated cycling with methane (Figure 2c,d). Over the course of an experiment (consisting of multiple carbon accumulation and removal cycles), MEA performance suffered but remained higher for the undoped Ni-YSZ compared to the infiltrated anodes (Figure 2c). Cell performance for the MEA with the BaO infiltrated anode was consistently lower than for the MEA with the Sn infiltrated anode. In addition to lower conversion efficiencies, EIS measurements for the infiltrated anodes (Figure 2b,d) exhibited similar Rs values as the undoped MEA (∼5 Ω) but higher Rp values (ranging from 24–34 Ω and 35–103 Ω for the Sn and BaO infiltrated anodes, respectively) compared to the undoped cell (ranging from 15–20 Ω).
Figure 2
Figure 2. Benchmark electrochemical measurements collected for undoped and infiltrated Ni-YSZ MEAs operating with H2 at 730 °C prior to exposure to CH4 (a, b) and after repeated cycling (c, d). The V–I and P–I traces in (a, c) correspond to the solid and dashed lines, respectively. Note that the voltammetry data do not extend to short circuit voltage (0 V) or, equivalently, Imax. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy data are shown in (b, d).
Raman spectra acquired from the different anodes exposed to CH4 show that carbon accumulated on all three anode types with the smallest amount of carbon forming on the 1% BaO infiltrated anodes (Figure 3a). The deposited carbon on all three anodes was comprised predominantly of highly ordered graphite as evident by the sharp “G” peak at 1561 cm–1. For all of the anodes, YSZ, graphite, and NiO were the only chemical species observed in the Raman spectra.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Representative Raman spectra acquired from undoped Ni-YSZ and infiltrated Ni-YSZ anodes at the end of the 10 min CH4 exposure period. (b) Normalized G peak intensity at 1561 cm–1 as a function of time during CH4 exposure showing carbon growth on each anode type.
The rate of carbon growth was determined by plotting the G peak intensity as a function of time (Figure 3b). Because of variations in absolute intensities (of ∼±20%) between experiments, data were normalized to compare carbon growth kinetics directly. For all MEAs, graphite began to accumulate within 1 min of exposing the anode to CH4, and the signals reached asymptotic limits after ∼8 min. The asymptotic limit in the kinetics data for the 1% BaO infiltrated anode is attributed to the amount of deposited carbon reaching a steady state while the kinetics for the undoped and 1% Sn infiltrated anodes are likely limited by the penetration depth of the Raman excitation source. This claim is based on the significantly lower absolute graphite signal observed for the BaO infiltrated samples (Figure 3a). The undoped Ni-YSZ anodes showed rapid carbon growth beginning at ∼20 s while carbon accumulation on the infiltrated samples was delayed slightly and appeared at 40–50 s. These results show that small amounts of the dopants slowed the initial formation of carbon, while BaO also reduced the total amount of carbon that accumulated; notably, the addition of 1% BaO or 1% Sn to Ni-YSZ anodes did not prevent carbon from eventually forming on the anode surface.
Although the Raman spectra showed that more carbon accumulated on the undoped and Sn infiltrated anodes, the presence of Sn in the anode had a measurable effect on the cell potential relative to the undoped anode. As shown in Figure 4, the OCV of the Ni-YSZ anode exposed to CH4 was consistently −1.28 ± 0.01 V, while the values for the 1% Sn and 1% BaO infiltrated anodes were −1.17 ± 0.01 and −1.05 ± 0.02 V, respectively. Voltammetry measurements with the 1% BaO infiltrated anode showed very unusual oscillatory behavior in the OCV data during the 10 min CH4 exposure (insets in Figure 4). This response was never observed from the same anode exposed to H2 or the reforming agents, nor was such activity observed with either the undoped Ni-YSZ or the 1% Sn infiltrated anodes. During the first 90 s following introduction of CH4 to the 1% BaO anode, the OCV increased steadily to −1.07 V while the Raman spectra showed measurable, albeit weak, evidence of carbon formation. The cell potential then began to oscillate with a ∼70 s period and amplitude of ∼±0.04 V. By the end of the exposure period, the average voltage of these fluctuations began to stabilize to −1.05 ± 0.02 V.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Cell potential as a function of time during the carbon formation/removal cycles for the three different cermet anodes held at OCV. The CH4 fuel was supplied to the anode until ∼600 s; the anode chamber was then purged with Ar for ∼240 s; and at ∼840 s the anode was exposed to the H2O (top), CO2 (middle), and O2 (bottom) oxidant. The insets show the oscillating behavior observed with the 1% BaO infiltrated anode during CH4 exposure.
Discussion
The identical cell potentials for the Ni-YSZ and 1% Sn anodes exposed to H2 (y-axis intercepts at −1.22 V in Figure 4) imply that the Sn did not participate directly in electrochemical reactions of H2 at anode’s electrochemically active TPB. In contrast, the cell potential for the 1% BaO infiltrated anode exposed to H2 was measurably different with an OCV that was 0.05 V smaller in magnitude than the measured voltage for the undoped cell. According to the Nernst equation for H2 oxidation, the smaller cell potential indicates a higher conversion of H2 to H2O(g) (59) at the BaO infiltrated anode. The higher concentration of H2O(g) above the BaO infiltrated anode likely arises from the known ability of BaO to promote chemical oxidation of H2. (60) Similarly, the benchmark LSV and EIS measurements suggest differences in the surface chemistry between the infiltrated and undoped Ni-YSZ anodes. The lower powers produced by the Sn and BaO infiltrated cells (see Figure 2a,c) may be attributed to the dopants occupying catalytic sites on the Ni reducing the overall number of catalytic reactions at the anode and/or changes in the anode microstructure. (38, 61) The increase in Rp for MEAs with Sn or BaO infiltrated anodes (see Figure 2b,d) is attributed to decreased catalytic activity at the TPBs and reduced mass transport relative to the MEA with the undoped Ni-YSZ anode. Specifically, the higher Rp values for the BaO infiltrated cell have been attributed to the dopants occupying catalytic sites on the Ni, reducing electrochemical activity for H2 oxidation, (33) and a volume expansion of the anode due to interactions between the YSZ and BaO. (62) Changes in anode microstructure can impede gas flow, an effect that would be associated with the increased Rp and would require additional components to fit the EIS data (Figure 2b). Impedance data coupled with the voltammetry results show clearly that infiltrating the Ni-YSZ cermet anodes adversely impacts electrochemical performance of these electrolyte supported MEAs operating with H2.
During CH4 exposure at OCV, the Raman spectra showed that graphite formed on all of the anodes with the least amount of carbon accumulating on the BaO infiltrated anodes (Figure 3a). Differences in the measured cell OCV (Figure 4) indicate that carbon accumulation within the infiltrated anodes was not the same as within the undoped Ni-YSZ. Previous studies have shown that as graphite begins to accumulate within the anode, the cell OCV stabilizes within the vicinity of −1.3 V. (29, 45) Based on these findings, cell potentials close to this value are attributed to carbon accumulation in the electrochemically active region of the anode, and any significant variations in OCV measurements from this value during CH4 exposure will arise from additional electrochemical reactions and/or surface reactions that change the partial pressures of species (such as H2O, CO2, and CO) above the anode. (63-65) Given that these measurements are performed without cell polarization, we assume that changes in gas phase partial pressures arise from Sn or BaO catalyzed surface chemistry.
Raman data from the undoped Ni-YSZ and 1% Sn anodes implied that similar amounts of carbon formed on the surface of each anode. However, CH4 affected the electrochemical behavior of the 1% Sn infiltrated anodes very differently relative to the undoped Ni-YSZ anode (Figure 4). Unlike the undoped Ni-YSZ anode where changes in OCV indicated carbon accumulation throughout the anode, the OCV for the 1% Sn anode increased (or became less negative) under CH4. The fact that the OCV of the 1% Sn anode exposed to CH4 did not decrease to a value approaching −1.3 V shows that spectroscopically observable carbon did not accumulate within the electrochemically active region. Instead, the cell potential suggested that hydrogen and/or CO oxidation were the relevant half-reactions at the TPB.
Earlier studies of Ni-YSZ anodes infiltrated with Sn have proposed that Sn displaces the Ni from carbon nucleation sites, lowering carbon binding energy to the catalyst. (61) If carbon on these sites is less tightly bound to the surface, carbon that forms near the TPBs will be more susceptible to removal by electrochemical oxidation and surface reforming reactions. Conversely, carbon deposited at locations far from the TPB will be removed only via reactions with the gas phase products or mobile surface species and will not contribute to the measured cell potential. Given spectroscopic data that clearly show significant carbon accumulation and voltammetry measurements indicating just as clearly that less—if any—deposited carbon is electrochemically accessible, we conclude that the net result of infiltrating a Ni-YSZ anode with Sn still enables carbon growth on the top surface of the anode but inhibits carbon accumulation in the electrochemically active region.
The cyclic behavior of the cell potential for MEAs with 1% BaO is attributed to oscillatory carbon formation/removal on the anode. The oscillating OCV implies that electrochemical reactions at the TPBs and/or gas phase reactant and product partial pressures varied cyclically in the anode chamber. Raman spectra collected during exposure to CH4 confirmed the presence of carbon on the BaO infiltrated anode, but rapid changes in the amount of carbon that might correlate with the oscillating OCV data were not discernible in the spectra.
Several studies have examined the effects of adding BaO to high-temperature catalysts in an effort to reduce coking or to promote selective reactions such as the direct decomposition of NO in exhaust systems. (32-34) BaO islands on the order of 10–100 nm in diameter have been observed on the surface of electrodes infiltrated or coated with BaO following thermal conditioning. (32, 33, 36, 66) Experimental and computational studies conducted by Yang et al. provide a possible explanation of the role BaO plays mitigating carbon formation on Ni catalysts. (34) On the basis of their proposed mechanism, we can interpret the oscillatory behavior observed in the voltammetry measurements for the MEA with the 1% BaO anodes exposed to CH4. After switching the fuel from H2 to CH4, Ni catalyzes dissociative chemisorption of CH4 to produce adsorbed carbon and hydrogen. The hydrogen can react either with surface oxides (such as YSZ) to produce H2O (67) that either desorbs and is carried away in the exhaust or rapidly dissociates on the BaO islands to create a population of surface hydroxides. (68) The hydroxyl groups on BaO can then remove carbon that has formed near the dopant-TPBs to create CO and H2. (Here, the term “dopant-TPB” is used to refer to boundaries between the BaO and Ni and the ambient gas phase.) These processes will promote the production of the reaction products CO and CO2, and the measured OCV will increase toward the CO/CO2 equilibrium potential at −0.99 V. (65) Carbon accumulation will continue on the Ni regions that are far from the BaO structures. If the carbon accumulates far away from the dopant-TPBs of the BaO islands and cannot be oxidized by gas species, then the partial pressure of CO2 decreases and the OCV approaches −1.07 V. As more carbon accumulates, the carbon that grows toward the dopant TPBs can be oxidized, resulting in an increase the CO2 partial pressure and rise in cell potential. While this proposed sequence is admittedly speculative, the spectroscopic and voltammetry data reported above coupled with the computational efforts of Yang et al. provide an internally consistent description of experimental observations and raise important questions about the role of adsorbate surface mobility in these complex catalytic systems.
Carbon Removal with Reforming Agents
Results
Following exposure to CH4, the anode chamber was purged with Ar for 240 s to remove any residual fuel before a reforming agent was introduced. The cell OCV increased for all of the anodes after switching off the supply of CH4 (Figure 4). For the undoped cell, the OCV changed by 0.01–0.04 V while the OCV for the Sn- and BaO-infiltrated anodes rose by 0.04–0.06 and 0.09–0.35 V, respectively. Although this changing OCV under Ar implied continued chemistry in the electrochemically active region, Raman spectroscopy confirmed that graphite remained on the top surface of each anode.
Similar to previous studies, (56) experiments presented in this work found that H2O and CO2 removed carbon and only partially oxidized Ni in the anode while O2 oxidized both the deposited carbon and the Ni anode itself. Representative Raman spectra collected from the undoped Ni-YSZ during exposure to O2 are presented in Figure 5. Raman kinetics data showing rates of carbon removal and NiO formation are shown in Figure 6 for Ni-YSZ and both the Sn and BaO infiltrated anodes. Data have been normalized with respect to the maximum signal intensities to allow for direct comparisons between each anode/reforming agent combination. Low Raman intensities observed for the 1% BaO sample exposed to H2O and CO2 led to large fluctuations in the normalized kinetics spectra. The removal of carbon from the anode is defined to be complete when the normalized Raman G peak intensity drops to the baseline (average normalized Raman intensity ∼0.1) while the appearance of NiO is defined by the time corresponding to a normalized Raman intensity above the baseline with all subsequent data points increasing in intensity.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Raman spectra collected from the undoped Ni-YSZ prior (t = 0 s) and during (t > 0 s) O2 exposure at 730 °C showing the removal of carbon (G peak at 1561 cm–1) and formation of NiO (broad peak at 1070 cm–1). Spectra have been offset in the y-axis for clarity.
Raman spectroscopy measurements verified that the removal of carbon preceded the formation of NiO for all of the reforming agents. As shown in Figure 6, the rate of carbon removal was slower for the Sn infiltrated anode exposed to O2 while the rate of carbon removal on the BaO infiltrated anode was slowest for the all of the reforming agents. Carbon oxidation rates shared some similarities for all of the anodes with H2O being the most efficient reforming agent that rapidly removed a majority or all of the carbon from the anode surface within the first 40 s of exposure and CO2 being the least efficient reforming agent (Table 2). Correlations between the spectroscopic and voltammetry data recorded during exposure to each reforming agent are discussed in detail below. A summary of the carbon and Ni oxidation kinetics data is presented in Table 2.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Raman kinetics data acquired during the introduction of the reforming agents (at ∼5 s) where the top, middle, and bottom rows correspond to spectra collected from the Ni-YSZ, 1% Sn, and 1% BaO infiltrated anodes, respectively; and the columns correspond to cycles for a given reforming agent. The oxidation of carbon and Ni correspond to a decrease in G peak intensity at 1561 cm–1 (red diamonds) and an increase in NiO signal at 1070 cm–1 (green squares). Note that in the plots above t = 0 s corresponds to t ∼ 840 s in Figure 4.
Table 2. Reforming Agent Oxidation Data for Each MEA Experiment
reforming agent C(s) oxidation time (s)a [sample size]d Ni oxidation time (s)a [sample size]d Raman Δtlapse time (s)b potential Δtlapse time (s)c [sample size]e
Ni-YSZ
H2O 20 [6] 160 [2] 140 13 ± 4 [2]
CO2 120 [2] 180 [2] 60 52 ± 3 [4]
O2 60 [2] 60 [2] 0 31 ± 7 [4]
1% Sn–Ni–YSZ
H2O 20 [6] 140 [3] 120 24 ± 6 [4]
CO2 130 [4] 170 [2] 40 110 ± 5 [2]
O2 100 [3] 100 [2] 0 48 ± 0 [1]
1% BaO-Ni-YSZ
H2O 40 and 240f [3] 290 [1] 250 and 50f 19 ± 1 [2]
CO2 180 [4] 260 [2] 80 100 ± 18 [2]
O2 110 [3] 110 [3] 0 74 ± 17 [3]
aUncertainties are ±10 s (limited by spectra acquisition times) unless stated otherwise.
bPeriod of time difference between loss of graphitic G peak signal and appearance of NiO signal.
cPeriod of time between introducing the oxidizing agent and the rapid change in cell potential.
dSample size for spectroscopic observations include data from both full MEAs (with cathodes) and “chips” that have only the anode attached to the electrolyte.
eSample size for electrochemical measurements report only measurements from complete MEAs.
fApproximately 65% reduction of the graphite Raman signal occurred within 40 s proceeded by a slower decrease in the remaining G peak intensity.
The Raman kinetics data show that within 20 s of switching on the H2O all observable carbon was removed from both the undoped and Sn infiltrated Ni-YSZ electrodes (Figure 6 and Table 2). The decrease in the graphite signal was accompanied by a steep increase in cell potential, and after ∼2 min of H2O exposure, the OCV reached an asymptotic limit of −0.72 ± 0.01 V (Figure 4). Shortly after the cell OCV reached this limit, Raman spectra showed evidence of NiO formation. When exposed to H2O, the MEA with 1% BaO exhibited an initial, steep decrease in the amount of graphite, but even after 40 s some graphite signal persisted. This remaining graphite disappeared more slowly. Following the loss in graphite signal, the NiO feature appeared at ∼240 s and the OCV continued to increase above −0.72 V. Comparing these results shows that oxidation reactions associated with the H2O reforming agent were similar for the undoped and Sn infiltrated anodes, while kinetics for BaO infiltrated anode were more complicated and included a slower carbon removal step.
As a reforming agent, CO2 was the slowest to remove carbon with average removal times of 120, 130, and 180 s for the undoped, 1% Sn, and 1% BaO infiltrated samples, respectively (Table 2). Similar to the cell potentials with H2O, the cell OCV during exposure to CO2 approached −0.99 V as the graphitic G peak in the Raman spectra disappeared. After the graphite feature had disappeared from the Raman spectra, the cell OCV began to increase as the CO2 began to oxidize Ni. The NiO feature appeared in the Raman spectra at 180 and 170 s after the start of CO2 exposure for the undoped and Sn infiltrated anodes, respectively, but was delayed until 250 s for the BaO infiltrated anode (Figure 6). In addition to slower kinetics, the spectroscopic signal associated with NiO for the BaO samples had a low intensity that continuously increased over the 10 min exposure period to CO2. Repeated efforts to find evidence of BaCO3 formation (69) were unsuccessful, likely due to the relatively small amount of BaO present in the anode.
Carbon removal with O2 took almost twice as long on the infiltrated anodes compared to the undoped anode (Table 2). Spectra from the different anodes exposed to O2 show that NiO formation occurred almost immediately after the graphite Raman signal had disappeared (Figure 6). For the Sn-infiltrated anodes, NiO appeared simultaneously with the disappearance of graphite although the measured OCV was slower to change. Carbon removal from the BaO anode exposed to O2 was accompanied by a gradual increase in OCV. As the carbon signature disappeared from the Raman spectra, the NiO feature began to grow as the OCV rose rapidly and approached an asymptotic limit of −0.1 V. Since repeated redox cycling of SOFCs leads to irreversible damage to the cell, (70) many of the O2 exposure cycles were conducted for only 3 min; however, near the end of an experiment, exposure to O2 was extended for a full 10 min.
Discussion
During the Ar purge, changing Raman intensities and OCV implied that surface reactions continued to occur. As noted in the Experimental Methods section, numerous benchmark measurements were performed at the start of an experiment and between cycles to test for the presence/development of leaks between the cathode and anode. No evidence of leaks was observed. Following carbon formation, the small change in OCV for the undoped anode during the purge period suggests that its electrochemical behavior remained dominated by the carbon deposits in the electrochemically active region. During the Ar purge, the OCV for the Sn infiltrated anode gradually increased and approached the standard reduction potential associated with the CO/CO2 equilibrium. The BaO infiltrated anode exhibited an increase in OCV approaching the Ni/NiO equilibrium potential (at ∼−0.73 V), (71) indicating that Ni oxidation was already likely starting to occur in the electrochemically active region.
Changes in the kinetics data brought about by infiltrating the anodes with either Sn or BaO may arise from several mechanisms: (1) the dopants occupy catalytic sites on Ni, slowing surface reactions at the anode relative to the undoped anode; (2) the presence of the dopants changes the binding energy of the carbon to the Ni catalyst; and/or (3) the dopants participate directly in reactions with the H2O, CO2, and O2.
If Sn and BaO acted as spectrators and did not directly influence surface chemistry, dopants located on the Ni surface would reduce the number of catalytic sites available to promote oxidation reactions between the reforming agent and graphite. (61) Such a “mechanical” argument would predict that graphite removal from the Sn and BaO infiltrated anode should be slower than for the undoped samples. This conclusion is supported generally by Raman spectra (Figure 6) that showed carbon removal from the infiltrated anodes required similar or longer times than from the undoped MEA.
The second proposed mechanism considers changes in the binding energy between the adsorbed species and the Ni surface. (61) In this model the increased bond strength between the Ni substrate and adsorbed species would lead to consistently longer times for carbon removal and Ni oxidation. Table 2 shows with H2O and CO2 the undoped and Sn-infiltrated anodes behave similarly but that carbon removal and Ni oxidation on the BaO infiltrated anode requires considerably more time. With O2 as the reforming agent, carbon removal and Ni oxidation take more time with both infiltrated anodes than for the undoped Ni-YSZ anode. This pattern of reactivity is inconsistent with models that attribute changes in surface reaction kinetics with changes in binding energy between the deposited carbon and Ni surface. We note, however, that this conclusion may not apply in the limit where the 2° material is present in higher concentrations and can more directly mediate carbon adhesion to the anode.
Finally, the third proposed mechanism involves reactions between the dopant and the reforming agent. Previously reported findings from Kirtley et al. (56) attributed the relative efficacy of H2O, O2, and CO2 in removing carbon from (non-infiltrated) Ni-YSZ cermet anodes to the ability of the anode to promote formation of surface oxygen species. This step is predicted to be fastest with H2O and slowest with CO2. (47) If dopants can compete with accumulated carbon to react with surface oxygen created by chemisorption of a reforming agent, then the rate of carbon removal will be slowed. This prediction is largely supported by the data in Table 2 with one exception: carbon removal by H2O from the BaO infiltrated anode shows two distinct steps, one fast (and consistent with the undoped and Sn-infiltrated anodes) and a second, slower process that requires ∼4 min to remove the remaining carbon deposits.
To better understand these observations, specific reactions between the dopant species and reforming agents must be considered. All of the reforming agents can react with the Sn to produce SnO2 (72, 73) while the oxidized BaO species (Ba(OH)2, BaO2, and BaCO3) is dependent on the gas. (74-76) Formation of these oxidized dopants will slow the carbon oxidation kinetics if the reforming agent readily reacts with the dopant. For example, when the Sn infiltrated anode is exposed to O2, not all of the O2 that reaches the anode will oxidize carbon immediately since a portion of the O2 is consumed by Sn oxidation. After the Sn has been completely oxidized, all of the O2 that reaches the anode will then oxidize the remaining carbon. This condition permits continued formation of NiO unhindered by the dopant, and the elapsed time between when the graphitic G peak disappears and the NiO signal begins to grow will be similar to the undoped sample. The experimental results in Table 2 show that carbon removal requires longer times for the Sn and Ba-infiltrated anodes but that Ni oxidation immediately follows carbon removal (Δtlapse time = 0 s) for all three anodes.
The kinetic traces in Figure 6 indicate that two different mechanisms are responsible for removal of graphite from BaO infiltrated anodes by steam as evident by the two distinct rates of carbon removal where the G peak loses intensity abruptly during the first 40 s of exposure and then more gradually during the next ∼200 s. These data are markedly different from steam-driven graphite removal from the undoped and 1% Sn anodes where the graphite intensity observed in the Raman spectra drops to baseline within 30 s. These two different rates of graphite removal from the 1% BaO infiltrated anodes are assigned to different heterogeneous surface processes. Since the OCV data in Figure 4 establish that accumulated carbon is not present in the electrochemically active TPB region of the anode, graphite oxidation could not be observed directly through voltammetry measurements. The slow decrease in deposited carbon that began after 40 s may be a consequence of the surface reaction kinetics in the presence of Ba(OH)2. More studies are needed to explore the possible role of Ba(OH)2 and are beyond the scope of this paper. Additionally, changes in the NiO kinetics indicate that Ni oxidation mechanisms associated with the BaO infiltrated anodes exposed to H2O are not the same as the Ni oxidation in the other anodes. The elapsed time between the disappearance of the spectroscopic G peak and the appearance of the NiO feature was approximately half the time for the undoped and Sn infiltrated anodes.
Conclusions
Jump To
The effects of Sn and BaO (1 mass %) added Ni-YSZ SOFC cermet anodes were investigated by performing in situ Raman spectroscopy coupled with voltammetry measurements at OCV. The spectroscopic data revealed that highly ordered graphite formed on the top surface of all of anodes exposed to CH4 while the measured cell potentials strongly implied a heterogeneous distribution of carbon throughout the anode microstructure. Raman spectra collected on anodes infiltrated with 1% Sn had graphite G peak intensities similar to those of the undoped MEAs, but OCV data indicated that carbon did not accumulate in the Sn-doped electrochemically active region, suggesting that Sn-driven reforming of methane changed the fuel composition near the electrolyte–anode interface. The amount of carbon that formed on MEAs with 1% BaO was noticeably less than on the 1% Sn infiltrated anodes, as evidenced by the lower intensity Raman signal. Interestingly, the OCV for the BaO infiltrated anodes exhibited a cyclic behavior during exposure to CH4. This phenomenon is attributed to the oscillatory formation and removal of carbon within the anode microstructure catalyzed by the Ba/BaO dopant. Vibrational spectra recorded during the Ar purge verified that graphite remained on the anode in the absence of a gas phase fuel although oxidation of the deposited carbon continued to occur. The pronounced increase in OCV during the Ar purge of the BaO infiltrated anodes compared to the undoped and Sn samples emphasized the dynamic role BaO plays in the removal of carbon from the Ni catalyst.
In addition to carbon formation, the ability of reforming agents to remove graphite from each anode type was examined. The graphite oxidization was most rapid for H2O followed by O2 and then CO2 on the undoped and Sn infiltrated anodes. On the BaO infiltrated anode, carbon removal by H2O showed evidence of two distinct mechanisms while removal of carbon by O2 and CO2 followed patterns similar to the Sn-infiltrated and undoped anodes.
Several important findings emerged from this work:
• Although the Ni-YSZ and Sn infiltrated anode surfaces showed similar susceptibilities to carbon deposition, the electrochemically active interface between the electrode and electrolyte appeared to remain carbon-free for the Sn infiltrated anode while carbon accumulated throughout the undoped anode.
• BaO inhibited carbon deposition throughout the anode with less carbon present both in the electrochemically active region and on the anode’s top surface.
• Of the three reforming agents used to remove carbon from the anodes, steam was the most efficient and CO2 required the longest time. O2 required slightly longer exposure to remove deposited carbon but then oxidized the anode completely. Steam and CO2 only partially oxidized the anode, establishing equilibrium distributions of Ni and NiO on the undoped and Sn infiltrated anodes over a 10 min exposure period. The BaO infiltrated anodes, however, showed strong evidence of continued Ni oxidation under steam and CO2, suggesting that BaO can destabilize anode microstructure and reduce electrochemical conversion efficiency.
Taken together, these results showed that both Sn and BaO were effective at keeping carbon from accumulating in the electrochemically active regions of an SOFC anode during limited exposure to methane. Sn, however, was unable to suppress carbon deposition on the top surface of the anode, and BaO was moderately effective in this capacity. This paradox—carbon on the anode surface but not in the electrochemically active region—implies large variations in heterogeneous surface chemistry throughout the porous anode structure.
Author Information
Jump To
Corresponding Authors
Josephine M. Hill - Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, University of Calgary, 2500 University Dr. NW, Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, Canada;  Email: jhill@ucalgary.ca
Robert A. Walker - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Montana State University, Bozeman, Montana 59717, United States;  Email: rawalker@chemistry.montana.edu
Authors
Melissa D. McIntyre - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Montana State University, Bozeman, Montana 59717, United States
John D. Kirtley - Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Montana State University, Bozeman, Montana 59717, United States
Anand Singh - Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, University of Calgary, 2500 University Dr. NW, Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, Canada
Shamiul Islam - Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, University of Calgary, 2500 University Dr. NW, Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, Canada
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgment
Jump To
This work was supported by grants from the United States Office of Naval Research (N000141010954, N000141210199, and N000141410326) and an NSERC Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Canada Strategic Research Network from the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC).
Abbreviations
Jump To
MEA membrane electrode assembly
OCV open circuit voltage
SOFC solid oxide fuel cell
TPB triple phase boundary
YSZ yttria-stabilized zirconia.
References
Jump To
This article references 76 other publications.
1Bai, X.; Wang, S.; Sun, T.; Wang, S. Influence of Operating Conditions on Carbon Deposition over a Ni Catalyst for the Production of Synthetic Natural Gas (SNG) from Coal Catal. Lett. 2014, 144, 2157– 2166[Crossref], Google Scholar
2Froment, G. F. Kinetic Modeling of Hydrocarbon Processing and the Effect of Catalyst Deactivation by Coke Formation Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2008, 50, 1– 18[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
3Walters, K. M.; Dean, A. M.; Zhu, H. Y.; Kee, R. J. Homogeneous Kinetics and Equilibrium Predictions of Coking Propensity in the Anode Channels of Direct Oxidation Solid-Oxide Fuel Cells Using Dry Natural Gas J. Power Sources 2003, 123, 182– 189[Crossref], Google Scholar
4Speck, P.; Young, D. J. Influence of Hafnium Additions and Preoxidation Treatment on the Metal Dusting of Ni-Al Alloys Oxid. Met. 2011, 76, 287– 305[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
5Nolan, P. E.; Lynch, D. C.; Cutler, A. H. Catalytic Disproportionation of CO in the Absence of Hydrogen Encapsulating Shell Carbon Formation Carbon 1994, 32, 477– 483[Crossref], Google Scholar
6Young, D. J.; Zhang, J.; Geers, C.; Schutze, M. Recent Advances in Understanding Metal Dusting: A Review Mater. Corros. 2011, 62, 7– 28[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
7Caillot, T.; Gauthier, G.; Delichere, P.; Cayron, C.; Aires, F. J. C. S. Evidence of Anti-Coking Behavior of La0.8Sr0.2Cr0.98Ru0.02O3 as Potential Anode Material for Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Directly Fed under Methane J. Catal. 2012, 290, 158– 164[Crossref], Google Scholar
8Therdthianwong, S.; Siangchin, C.; Therdthianwong, A. Improvement of Coke Resistance of Ni/Al2O3 Catalyst in CH4/CO2 Reforming by ZrO2 Addition Fuel Process. Technol. 2008, 89, 160– 168[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
9Yoon, D.; Manthiram, A. Hydrogen Tungsten Bronze as a Decoking Agent for Long-Life, Natural Gas-Fueled Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Energ Environ. Sci. 2014, 7, 3069– 3076[CAS], Google Scholar
10Kanh, V. B.; Song, M. B.; Ahn, I. Y.; Suh, Y. W.; Suh, D. J.; Kim, J. S.; Shin, E. W. Location and Structure of Coke Generated over Pt-Sn/Al2O3 in Propane Dehydrogenation Ind. Eng. Chem. 2011, 17, 71– 76[Crossref], Google Scholar
11Macleod, N.; Fryer, J. R.; Stirling, D.; Webb, G. Deactivation of Bi- and Multimetallic Reforming Catalysts: Influence of Alloy Formation on Catalyst Activity Catal. Today 1998, 46, 37– 54[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
12Garcia, L.; French, R.; Czernik, S.; Chornet, E. Catalytic Steam Reforming of Bio-Oils for the Production of Hydrogen: Effects of Catalyst Composition Appl. Catal., A 2000, 201, 225– 239[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
13Hou, Z.; Yokota, O.; Tanaka, T.; Yashima, T. Surface Properties of a Coke-Free Sn Doped Nickel Catalyst for the CO2 Reforming of Methane Appl. Surf. Sci. 2004, 233, 58– 68[Crossref], Google Scholar
14Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Galvita, V.; Bell, A. T. Catalyst Performance of Novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O Catalysts for Alkane Dehydrogenation J. Catal. 2010, 274, 200– 206[Crossref], Google Scholar
15de Lima, S. M.; da Silva, A. M.; Jacobs, G.; Davis, B. H.; Mattos, L. V.; Noronha, F. B. New Approaches to Improving Catalyst Stability over Pt/Ceria During Ethanol Steam Reforming: Sn Addition and CO2 CO-Feeding Appl. Catal., B 2010, 96, 387– 398[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
16Wang, F.; Wang, W.; Ran, R.; Tade, M. O.; Shao, Z. Aluminum Oxide as a Dual-Functional Modifier of Ni-Based Anodes of Solid Oxide Fuel Cells for Operation on Simulated Biogas J. Power Sources 2014, 268, 787– 793[Crossref], Google Scholar
17Hanna, J.; Lee, W. Y.; Shi, Y.; Ghoniem, A. F. Fundamentals of Electro- and Thermochemistry in the Anode of Solid-Oxide Fuel Cells with Hydrocarbon and Syngas Fuels Prog. Energy Combust. 2014, 40, 74– 111[Crossref], Google Scholar
18Lee, W. Y.; Hanna, J.; Ghoniem, A. F. On the Predictions of Carbon Deposition on the Nickel Anode of a SOFC and Its Impact on Open-Circuit Conditions J. Electrochem. Soc. 2013, 160, F94– F105[Crossref], Google Scholar
19Lu, Y. X.; Schaefer, L. A Solid Oxide Fuel Cell System Fed with Hydrogen Sulfide and Natural Gas J. Power Sources 2004, 135, 184– 191[Crossref], Google Scholar
20Takagi, Y.; Kerman, K.; Ko, C.; Ramanathan, S. Operational Characteristics of Thin Film Solid Oxide Fuel Cells With ruthenium Anode in Natural Gas J. Power Sources 2013, 243, 1– 9[Crossref], Google Scholar
21Wongchanapai, S.; Iwai, H.; Saito, M.; Yoshida, H. Performance Evaluation of a Direct-Biogas Solid Oxide Fuel Cell-Micro Gas Turbine (SOFC-MGT) Hybrid Combined Heat and Power (CHP) System J. Power Sources 2013, 223, 9– 17[Crossref], Google Scholar
22Martinez, A.; Gerdes, K.; Gemmen, R.; Poston, J. Thermodynamic Analysis of Interactions between Ni-Based Solid Oxide Fuel Cells (SOFC) Anodes and Trace Species in a Survey of Coal Syngas J. Power Sources 2010, 195, 5206– 5212[Crossref], Google Scholar
23Wang, W.; Wang, F.; Ran, R.; Park, H. J.; Jung, D. W.; Kwak, C.; Shao, Z. Coking Suppression in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Operating on Ethanol by Applying Pyridine as Fuel Additive J. Power Sources 2014, 265, 20– 29[Crossref], Google Scholar
24Sasaki, K.; Watanabe, K.; Teraoka, Y. Direct-Alcohol Sofcs: Current-Voltage Characteristics and Fuel Gas Compositions J. Electrochem. Soc. 2004, 151, A965– A970[Crossref], Google Scholar
25Trimm, D. L. Coke Formation and Minimisation during Steam Reforming Reactions Catal. Today 1997, 37, 233– 238[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
26Rakass, S.; Oudghiri-Hassani, H.; Rowntree, P.; Abatzoglou, N. Steam Reforming of Methane over Unsupported Nickel Catalysts J. Power Sources 2006, 158, 485– 496[Crossref], Google Scholar
27Klein, J.-M.; Henault, M.; Roux, C.; Bultel, Y.; Georges, S. Direct Methane Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Working by Gradual Internal Steam Reforming: Analysis of Operation J. Power Sources 2009, 193, 331– 337[Crossref], Google Scholar
28Toebes, M. L.; Bitter, J. H.; van Dillen, A. J.; de Jong, K. P. Impact of the Structure and Reactivity of Nickel Particles on the Catalytic Growth of Carbon Nanofibers Catal. Today 2002, 76, 33– 42[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Kirtley, J. D.; Steinhurst, D. A.; Owrutsky, J. C.; Pomfret, M. B.; Walker, R. A. In Situ Optical Studies of Methane and Simulated Biogas Oxidation on High Temperature Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Anodes Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014, 16, 227– 236[Crossref], Google Scholar
30Pomfret, M. B.; Marda, J.; Jackson, G. S.; Eichhorn, B. W.; Dean, A. M.; Walker, R. A. Hydrocarbon Fuels in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells: In Situ Raman Studies of Graphite Formation and Oxidation J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 5232– 5240[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
31Chun, C. M.; Mumford, J. D.; Ramanarayanan, T. A. Carbon-Induced Corrosion of Nickel Anode J. Electrochem. Soc. 2000, 147, 3680– 3686[Crossref], Google Scholar
32Li, X.; Shao, G.; Luo, J.; Lu, J.; Xue, M.; Hou, Y.; Deng, L. Fabrication and Characterization of Gdc Electrolyte/Electrode Integral SOFC with BaO/Ni-GDC Anode Mater. Res. Bull. 2014, 50, 337– 340[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Islam, S.; Hill, J. M. Barium Oxide Promoted Ni/YSZ Solid-Oxide Fuel Cells for Direct Utilization of Methane J. Mater. Chem. A 2014, 2, 1922– 1929[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
34Yang, L.; Choi, Y.; Qin, W. T.; Chen, H. Y.; Blinn, K.; Liu, M. F.; Liu, P.; Bai, J. M.; Tyson, T. A.; Liu, M. L. Promotion of Water-Mediated Carbon Removal by Nanostructured Barium Oxide/Nickel Interfaces in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Nat. Commun. 2011, 2, 357– 365[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
35Wang, W.; Zhu, H.; Yang, G.; Park, H. J.; Jung, D. W.; Kwak, C.; Shao, Z. A NiFeCu Alloy Anode Catalyst for Direct-Methane Solid Oxide Fuel Cells J. Power Sources 2014, 258, 134– 141[Crossref], Google Scholar
36Toscani, L. M.; Genoveva Zimicz, M.; Casanova, J. R.; Larrond, S. A. Ni-Cu/Ce0.9Zr0.1O2 Bimetallic Cermets for Electrochemical and Catalytic Applications Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2014, 39, 8759– 8766[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
37Yoon, D.; Manthiram, A. Hydrocarbon-Fueled Solid Oxide Fuel Cells with Surface-Modified, Hydroxylated Sn/Ni-Ce0.8Gd0.2O1.9 Heterogeneous Catalyst Anode J. Mater. Chem. A 2014, 2, 17041– 17046[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
38Singh, A.; Hill, J. M. Carbon Tolerance, Electrochemical Performance and Stability of Solid Oxide Fuel Cells with Ni/Yttria Stabilized Zirconia Anodes Impregnated with Sn and Operated with Methane J. Power Sources 2012, 214, 185– 194[Crossref], Google Scholar
39Kan, H.; Lee, H. Sn-Doped Ni/YSZ Anode Catalysts with Enhanced Carbon Deposition Resistance for an Intermediate Temperature Sofc Appl. Catal., B 2010, 97, 108– 114[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
40Trimm, D. L. Catalysts for the Control of Coking during Steam Reforming Catal. Today 1999, 49, 3– 10[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
41Zuo, P.; Fu, Z.; Yang, Z. First-Principles Study on the Mechanism of Coking Inhibition by the Ni(111) Surface Doped with Ib-Group Metals at the Anode of Solid Oxide Fuel Cells J. Power Sources 2013, 242, 762– 767[Crossref], Google Scholar
42Martins, R. L.; Baldanza, M. A. S.; Alberton, A. L.; Vasconcelos, S. M. R.; Moya, S. F.; Schmal, M. Effect of B and Sn on Ni Catalysts Supported on Pure- and on WO3/MoO3-Modified Zirconias for Direct CH4 Conversion to H2 Appl. Catal., B 2011, 103, 326– 335[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
43Xiao, J.; Xie, Y.; Liu, J.; Liu, M. Deactivation of Nickel-Based Anode in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Operated on Carbon-Containing Fuels J. Power Sources 2014, 268, 508– 516[Crossref], Google Scholar
44Millichamp, J.; Mason, T. J.; Brandon, N. P.; Brown, R. J. C.; Maher, R. C.; Manos, G.; Neville, T. P.; Brett, D. J. L. A Study of Carbon Deposition on Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Anodes Using Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy in Combination with a High Temperature Crystal Microbalance J. Power Sources 2013, 235, 14– 19[Crossref], Google Scholar
45Kirtley, J. D.; Halat, D. M.; McIntyre, M. D.; Eigenbrodt, B. C.; Walker, R. A. High-Temperature “Spectrochronopotentiometry”: Correlating Electrochemical Performance with in Situ Raman Spectroscopy in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Anal. Chem. 2012, 84, 9745– 9753[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
46Takahashi, H.; Takeguchi, T.; Yamamoto, N.; Matsuda, M.; Kobayashi, E.; Ueda, W. Effect of Interaction between Ni and YSZ on Coke Deposition during Steam Reforming of Methane on Ni/YSZ Anode Catalysts for an Ir-SOFC J. Mol. Catal. A 2011, 350, 69– 74[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
47Homel, M.; Gur, T. M.; Koh, J. H.; Virkar, A. V. Carbon Monoxide-Fueled Solid Oxide Fuel Cell J. Power Sources 2010, 195, 6367– 6372[Crossref], Google Scholar
48He, H. P.; Hill, J. M. Carbon Deposition on Ni/YSZ Composites Exposed to Humidified Methane Appl. Catal., A 2007, 317, 284– 292[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
49Finnerty, C. M.; Coe, N. J.; Cunningham, R. H.; Ormerod, R. M. Carbon Formation on and Deactivation of Nickel-Based/Zirconia Anodes in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Running on Methane Catal. Today 1998, 46, 137– 145[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
50Baker, R. T.; Metcalfe, I. S. Study of the Activity and Deactivation of Ni-YSZ Cermet in Dry CH4 Using Temperature-Programmed Techniques Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1995, 34, 1558– 1565[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
51Buccheri, M. A.; Singh, A.; Hill, J. M. Anode- Versus Electrolyte-Supported Ni-YSZ/YSZ/Pt SOFCs: Effect of Cell Design on OCV, Performance and Carbon Formation for the Direct Utilization of Dry Methane J. Power Sources 2011, 196, 968– 976[Crossref], Google Scholar
52Singh, A.; Islam, S.; Buccheri, M. A.; Hill, J. M. Influence of Experimental Conditions on Reliability of Carbon Tolerance Studies on Ni/YSZ SOFC Anodes Operated with Methane Fuel Cells 2013, 13, 703– 711Google Scholar
53Maher, R. C.; Duboviks, V.; Offer, G. J.; Kishimoto, M.; Brandon, N. P.; Cohen, L. F. Raman Spectroscopy of Solid Oxide Fuel Cells: Technique Overview and Application to Carbon Deposition Analysis Fuel Cells 2013, 13, 455– 469[Crossref], Google Scholar
54Li, X.; Blinn, K.; Fang, Y.; Liu, M.; Mahmoud, M. A.; Cheng, S.; Bottomley, L. A.; El-Sayed, M.; Liu, M. Application of Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy to the Study of SOFC Electrode Surfaces Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2012, 14, 5919– 5923[Crossref], Google Scholar
55Pomfret, M. B.; Owrutsky, J. C.; Walker, R. A. In Situ Optical Studies of Solid-Oxide Fuel Cells Annu. Rev. Anal. Chem. 2010, 3, 151– 174[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
56Kirtley, J.; Singh, A.; Halat, D.; Oswell, T.; Hill, J. M.; Walker, R. A. In Situ Raman Studies of Carbon Removal from High Temperature Ni-YSZ Cermet Anodes by Gas Phase Reforming Agents J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117, 25908– 25916[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
57Pomfret, M. B.; Owrutsky, J. C.; Walker, R. A. High-Temperature Raman Spectroscopy of Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Materials and Processes J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 17305– 17308[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
58Primdahl, S.; Mogensen, M. Oxidation of Hydrogen on Ni/Yttria-Stabilized Zirconia Cermet Anodes J. Electrochem. Soc. 1997, 144, 3409– 3419[Crossref], Google Scholar
59Kee, R. J.; Zhu, H. Y.; Goodwin, D. G. Solid-Oxide Fuel Cells with Hydrocarbon Fuels Proc. Combust. Inst. 2005, 30, 2379– 2404[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Buciuman, F.-C.; Patcas, F.; Menezo, J.-C.; Barbier, J.; Hahn, T.; Lintz, H.-G. Catalytic Properties of La0.8A0.2MnO3 (A = Sr, Ba, K, Cs) and LaMn0.8B0.2O3 (B = Ni, Zn, Cu) Perovskites 1. Oxidation of Hydrogen and Propene Appl. Catal., B 2002, 35, 175– 183[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
61Nikolla, E.; Schwank, J.; Linic, S. Comparative Study of the Kinetics of Methane Steam Reforming on Supported Ni and Sn/Ni Alloy Catalysts: The Impact of the Formation of Ni Alloy on Chemistry J. Catal. 2009, 263, 220– 227[Crossref], Google Scholar
62Serra, J. M.; Meulenberg, W. A. Thin-Film Proton BaZr0.85Y0.15O3 Conducting Electrolytes: Toward an Intermediate-Temperature Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Alternative J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 2007, 90, 2082– 2089[Crossref], Google Scholar
63Nabae, Y.; Pointon, K. D.; Irvine, J. T. S. Ni/C Slurries Based on Molten Carbonates as a Fuel for Hybrid Direct Carbon Fuel Cells J. Electrochem. Soc. 2009, 156, B716– B720[Crossref], Google Scholar
64Hecht, E. S.; Gupta, G. K.; Zhu, H. Y.; Dean, A. M.; Kee, R. J.; Maier, L.; Deutschmann, O. Methane Reforming Kinetics within a Ni-YSZ SOFC Anode Support Appl. Catal., A 2005, 295, 40– 51[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
65McIntosh, S.; Gorte, R. J. Direct Hydrocarbon Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 4845– 4865[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
66Vovk, E. I.; Emmez, E.; Erbudak, M.; Bukhtiyarov, V. I.; Ozensoy, E. Role of the Exposed Pt Active Sites and BaO2 Formation in NOx Storage Reduction Systems: A Model Catalyst Study on BaOx/Pt(111) J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 24256– 24266[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
67Shishkin, M.; Ziegler, T. Oxidation of H2, CH4, and CO Molecules at the Interface between Nickel and Yttria-Stabilized Zirconia: A Theoretical Study Based on DFT J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 21667– 21678[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
68Su, S. C.; Bell, A. T. Raman Studies of Peroxide Formation, Decomposition, and Reduction on Ba/MgO Catal. Lett. 1996, 36, 15– 19[Crossref], Google Scholar
69Kaabar, W.; Bott, S.; Devonshire, R. Raman Spectroscopic Study of Mixed Carbonate Materials Spectrochim. Acta, Part A 2011, 78, 136– 141[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
70Faes, A.; Fuerbringer, J.-M.; Mohamedi, D.; Hessler-Wyser, A.; Caboche, G.; Van Herle, J. Design of Experiment Approach Applied to Reducing and Oxidizing Tolerance of Anode Supported Solid Oxide Fuel Cell. Part I: Microstructure Optimization J. Power Sources 2011, 196, 7058– 7069[Crossref], Google Scholar
71Faes, A.; Hessler-Wyser, A.; Zryd, A.; Van herle, J. A Review of Redox Cycling of Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Anode Membranes 2012, 2, 585– 664[Crossref], Google Scholar
72LaBarbera, M.; Fedkin, M.; Lvov, S. Liquid Tin-Lead Anode Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Fueled by Coal ECS Trans. 2011, 35, 2725– 2734[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
73Leveque, G.; Abanades, S. Thermodynamic and Kinetic Study of the Carbothermal Reduction of SnO2 for Solar Thermochemical Fuel Generation Energy Fuels 2014, 28, 1396– 1405[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
74Strobel, R.; Maciejewski, M.; Pratsinis, S. E.; Baiker, A. Unprecedented Formation of Metastable Monoclinic BaCo3 Nanoparticles Thermochim. Acta 2006, 445, 23– 26[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
75Jorda, J. L.; Jondo, T. K. Barium Oxides: Equilibrium and Decomposition of BaO2 J. Alloys Compd. 2001, 327, 167– 177[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
76Baker, R. T. K.; Lund, C. R. F.; Chludzinski, J. J., Jr. Catalytic Gasification of Graphite by Barium in Steam, Carbon Dioxide, Oxygen, and Hydrogen J. Catal. 1984, 87, 255– 264[Crossref], Google Scholar
Cited By
Jump To
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
2
Mentioning
24
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 27 publications.
Martha M. Welander, Marley S. Zachariasen, Stephen W. Sofie, Robert A. Walker. Mitigating Carbon Formation with Al2TiO5-Enhanced Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Anodes. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (18) , 11406-11413. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b00964
Martha M. Welander, Marley S. Zachariasen, Stephen W. Sofie, Robert A. Walker. Enhancing Ni-YSZ Anode Resilience to Environmental Redox Stress with Aluminum Titanate Secondary Phases. ACS Applied Energy Materials 2018, 1 (11) , 6295-6302. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b01288
Paul Boldrin, Enrique Ruiz-Trejo, Joshua Mermelstein, José Miguel Bermúdez Menéndez, Tomás Ramı́rez Reina, and Nigel P. Brandon . Strategies for Carbon and Sulfur Tolerant Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Materials, Incorporating Lessons from Heterogeneous Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (22) , 13633-13684. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00284
Michaela Kogler, Eva-Maria Köck, Bernhard Klötzer, Lukas Perfler, and Simon Penner . Surface Reactivity of YSZ, Y2O3, and ZrO2 toward CO, CO2, and CH4: A Comparative Discussion. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (7) , 3882-3898. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b11861
Zongying Han, Hui Dong, Haowen Wang, Yanru Yang, Hao Yu, Zhibin Yang. Temperature-dependent chemical incompatibility between NiO-YSZ anode and alkaline earth metal oxides: Implications for surface decoration of SOFC anode. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2023, 968 , 172150. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.172150
Wei Zhang, Jialu Wei, Fusheng Yin, Chunwen Sun. Recent advances in carbon-resistant anodes for solid oxide fuel cells. Materials Chemistry Frontiers 2023, 89 https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QM01366E
Daniel B. Drasbæk, Märtha M. Welander, Marie L. Traulsen, Bhaskar R. Sudireddy, Peter Holtappels, Robert A. Walker. Operando characterization of metallic and bimetallic electrocatalysts for SOFC fuel electrodes operating under internal methane reforming conditions. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2022, 10 (10) , 5550-5560. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA07299D
Zetian Tao, Min Fu, Yong Liu. A mini-review of carbon-resistant anode materials for solid oxide fuel cells. Sustainable Energy & Fuels 2021, 5 (21) , 5420-5430. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1SE01300A
William A. Maza, Elias D. Pomeroy, Daniel A. Steinhurst, Robert A. Walker, Jeffrey C. Owrutsky. Operando optical studies of sulfur contamination in syngas operation of solid oxide fuel cells. Journal of Power Sources 2021, 510 , 230398. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.230398
Martinus Dewa, Wendy Yu, Nilesh Dale, A. Mohammed Hussain, M. Grant Norton, Su Ha. Recent progress in integration of reforming catalyst on metal-supported SOFC for hydrocarbon and logistic fuels. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2021, 46 (67) , 33523-33540. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.07.177
Yoshiteru Itagaki, Syuhei Yamaguchi, Hidenori Yahiro. Anodic Performance of BaO-Added Ni/SDC for Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Fed With Dry CH4. Frontiers in Energy Research 2021, 9 https://doi.org/10.3389/fenrg.2021.652239
William A. Maza, Daniel A. Steinhurst, Melissa D. McIntyre, Robert A. Walker, Jeffrey C. Owrutsky. Operando optical studies of solid oxide fuel cells operating on CO and simulated syngas fuels. Journal of Power Sources 2021, 492 , 229598. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.229598
Zewei Lyu, Yige Wang, Yongliang Zhang, Minfang Han. Solid oxide fuel cells fueled by simulated biogas: Comparison of anode modification by infiltration and reforming catalytic layer. Chemical Engineering Journal 2020, 393 , 124755. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.124755
Martha M. Welander, Daniel B. Drasbæk, Marie L. Traulsen, Bhaskar R. Sudireddy, Peter Holtappels, Robert A. Walker. What does carbon tolerant really mean? Operando vibrational studies of carbon accumulation on novel solid oxide fuel cell anodes prepared by infiltration. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics 2020, 22 (17) , 9815-9823. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CP00195C
Xiuqi Yuan, Huili Chen, Wenjuan Tian, Jing Shi, Wei Zhou, Fangqin Cheng, Si-Dian Li, Zongping Shao. Utilization of low-concentration coal-bed gas to generate power using a core-shell catalyst-modified solid oxide fuel cell. Renewable Energy 2020, 147 , 602-609. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2019.09.023
Beom-Kyeong Park, Roberto Scipioni, Dalton Cox, Scott A. Barnett. Enhancement of Ni–(Y 2 O 3 ) 0.08 (ZrO 2 ) 0.92 fuel electrode performance by infiltration of Ce 0.8 Gd 0.2 O 2−δ nanoparticles. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2020, 8 (7) , 4099-4106. https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA12316D
Chenhuan Zhao, Yifeng Li, Wenqiang Zhang, Yun Zheng, Xiaoming Lou, Bo Yu, Jing Chen, Yan Chen, Meilin Liu, Jianchen Wang. Heterointerface engineering for enhancing the electrochemical performance of solid oxide cells. Energy & Environmental Science 2020, 13 (1) , 53-85. https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE02230A
Wangxu Yue, Yifeng Li, Yun Zheng, Tong Wu, Chenhuan Zhao, Jia Zhao, Ga Geng, Wenqiang Zhang, Jing Chen, Jianxin Zhu, Bo Yu. Enhancing coking resistance of Ni/YSZ electrodes: In situ characterization, mechanism research, and surface engineering. Nano Energy 2019, 62 , 64-78. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.05.006
D. B. Drasbæk, M. L. Traulsen, R. A. Walker, P. Holtappels. Testing Novel Nickel and Cobalt Infiltrated STN Anodes for Carbon Tolerance using In Situ Raman Spectroscopy and Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy. Fuel Cells 2019, 19 (4) , 484-493. https://doi.org/10.1002/fuce.201800193
Hong Chang, Huili Chen, Guangming Yang, Jing Shi, Wei Zhou, Jianping Bai, Yuekui Wang, Si‐Dian Li. Enhanced coking resistance of Ni cermet anodes for solid oxide fuel cells based on methane on‐cell reforming by a redox‐stable double‐perovskite Sr 2 MoFeO 6‐δ. International Journal of Energy Research 2019, 43 (7) , 2527-2537. https://doi.org/10.1002/er.4106
Zewei Lyu, Hangyue Li, Minfang Han. Electrochemical properties and thermal neutral state of solid oxide fuel cells with direct internal reforming of methane. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2019, 44 (23) , 12151-12162. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2019.03.048
Jie Zhao, Xiaoyong Xu, Mengran Li, Wei Zhou, Shaomin Liu, Zhonghua Zhu. Coking-resistant Ce0.8Ni0.2O2-δ internal reforming layer for direct methane solid oxide fuel cells. Electrochimica Acta 2018, 282 , 402-408. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2018.06.088
Paul A. Connor, Xiangling Yue, Cristian D. Savaniu, Robert Price, Georgios Triantafyllou, Mark Cassidy, Gwilherm Kerherve, David J. Payne, Robert C. Maher, Lesley F. Cohen, Rumen I. Tomov, Bartek A. Glowacki, Ramachandran Vasant Kumar, John T. S. Irvine. Tailoring SOFC Electrode Microstructures for Improved Performance. Advanced Energy Materials 2018, 8 (23) https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201800120
Huili Chen, Yufang Wu, Guangming Yang, Jing Shi, Wei Zhou, Jianping Bai, Si‐Dian Li, Zongping Shao. Direct Power Generation from Low Concentration Coal‐Bed Gas by a Catalyst‐Modified Solid Oxide Fuel Cell. ChemElectroChem 2018, 5 (11) , 1459-1466. https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201800254
M. M. Welander, M. S. Zachariasen, C. D. Hunt, S. W. Sofie, R. A. Walker. Operando Studies of Redox Resilience in ALT Enhanced NiO-YSZ SOFC Anodes. Journal of The Electrochemical Society 2018, 165 (3) , F152-F157. https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0531803jes
Turgut M. Gür. Comprehensive review of methane conversion in solid oxide fuel cells: Prospects for efficient electricity generation from natural gas. Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 2016, 54 , 1-64. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pecs.2015.10.004
Bin Hua, Meng Li, Yi-Fei Sun, Ya-Qian Zhang, Ning Yan, Jian Chen, Jian Li, Thomas Etsell, Partha Sarkar, Jing-Li Luo. Biogas to syngas: flexible on-cell micro-reformer and NiSn bimetallic nanoparticle implanted solid oxide fuel cells for efficient energy conversion. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2016, 4 (12) , 4603-4609. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA00532B
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic diagram showing the sequence of gas exposures during a single carbon formation/removal cycle. Both the CH4 and reforming agents were present at low partial pressures in an Ar carrier gas. Quantitative details related to residence times and gas flows are reported in Table 1.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Benchmark electrochemical measurements collected for undoped and infiltrated Ni-YSZ MEAs operating with H2 at 730 °C prior to exposure to CH4 (a, b) and after repeated cycling (c, d). The V–I and P–I traces in (a, c) correspond to the solid and dashed lines, respectively. Note that the voltammetry data do not extend to short circuit voltage (0 V) or, equivalently, Imax. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy data are shown in (b, d).
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Representative Raman spectra acquired from undoped Ni-YSZ and infiltrated Ni-YSZ anodes at the end of the 10 min CH4 exposure period. (b) Normalized G peak intensity at 1561 cm–1 as a function of time during CH4 exposure showing carbon growth on each anode type.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Cell potential as a function of time during the carbon formation/removal cycles for the three different cermet anodes held at OCV. The CH4 fuel was supplied to the anode until ∼600 s; the anode chamber was then purged with Ar for ∼240 s; and at ∼840 s the anode was exposed to the H2O (top), CO2 (middle), and O2 (bottom) oxidant. The insets show the oscillating behavior observed with the 1% BaO infiltrated anode during CH4 exposure.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Raman spectra collected from the undoped Ni-YSZ prior (t = 0 s) and during (t > 0 s) O2 exposure at 730 °C showing the removal of carbon (G peak at 1561 cm–1) and formation of NiO (broad peak at 1070 cm–1). Spectra have been offset in the y-axis for clarity.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Raman kinetics data acquired during the introduction of the reforming agents (at ∼5 s) where the top, middle, and bottom rows correspond to spectra collected from the Ni-YSZ, 1% Sn, and 1% BaO infiltrated anodes, respectively; and the columns correspond to cycles for a given reforming agent. The oxidation of carbon and Ni correspond to a decrease in G peak intensity at 1561 cm–1 (red diamonds) and an increase in NiO signal at 1070 cm–1 (green squares). Note that in the plots above t = 0 s corresponds to t ∼ 840 s in Figure 4.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
