I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Modulating Lattice Oxygen in Dual-Functional MoVO Mixed Oxides for Chemical Looping Oxidative Dehydrogenation
Abstract
Oxygen chemistry plays a pivotal role in numerous chemical reactions. In particular, selective cleavage of CH bonds by metal oxo species is highly desirable in dehydrogenation of light alkanes. However, high selectivity of alkene is usually hampered through consecutive oxygenation reactions in a conventional oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) scheme. Herein, we show that dual-functional MoVO mixed oxides selectively convert propane to propylene via an alternative chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation (CL-ODH) approach. At 500 C, we obtain 89% propylene selectivity at 36% propane conversion over 100 dehydrogenationregeneration cycles. We attribute such high propylene yieldwhich exceeds that of previously reported ODH catalyststo the involvement and precise modulation of bulk lattice oxygen via atomic-scale doping of Mo and show that increasing the binding energy of VO bonds is critical to enhance the selectivity of propylene. This work provides the fundamental understanding of metaloxygen chemistry and a promising strategy for alkane dehydrogenation.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Activating the anionic redox reactions of oxygen in metal oxides provides exciting opportunities in chemical applications. (13) The dehydrogenation of propane to propylene is a contemporary example of such a promising yet challenging chemistry. (4,5) Despite nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) showing high propylene selectivity, it is strongly endothermic and deactivated by coking. (6,7) In contrast, ODH occurs in the presence of oxygen and has the potential to improve the process efficiency for favorable thermodynamics and coking resistance. (8,9) However, the propylene selectivity is hampered through the consecutive oxygenation reactions. Therefore, it is desirable to design the multifunctional materials to achieve high propylene selectivity and productivity.
Vanadium oxides have been widely investigated for both of PDH and ODH. In ODH, highly active V5+ species promotes the ready activation of propane via Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. (10) Previous study using VSiO catalysts achieved 48% propane conversion at 550 C. However, only 45% propylene selectivity was obtained over this highly active V5+ species due to overoxidation and coking. (8) Comparatively, the V3+ species was  more active for PDH than V5+ species. However, this highly reductive V3+ species leads to severe coking. (11,12) Until now, high propylene selectivity and productivity over vanadium oxides have not been achieved concurrently due to the unmanageable oxygen reactivity.
We controllably synthesized dual-functional MoVO mixed oxides via a simple coimpregnation process. Lattice oxygen in MoVO mixed oxides contributes to oxidative dehydrogenation by hydrogen abstraction and oxygen transfer. With depletion of lattice oxygen, the V3+ species functions as a catalytic site for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Combining in situ Raman, pulse injection and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we found that nondoped V2O5 is highly unselective to C3H6, while increasing the binding energy of VO bonds by Mo doping inhibits such lattice oxygen evolution for overoxidation. On this basis, we explained the lattice oxygen evolution mechanism and reaction pathways over MoVO mixed oxides.
Aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (AC-HAADF-STEM) image (Figure 1a) and line profiles indicate the replacement of V by atomically doped Mo atoms (Figure 1b). Energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS) mappings show Mo is well distributed with V element (Figure S1). X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns show that the diffraction peaks of V2O5 (PDF 41-1426) shift to lower diffraction angles (Figure 1c and Table S2) when the molar ratio of V/Mo is higher than 6. With a further increase of Mo addition (V/Mo = 4), crystalline MoO3 (PDF 47-1081) emerges. In Raman spectra, crystalline V2O5 without the segregated MoO3 was observed over MoVO (V/Mo = 6) (Figure 1d and Table S3). The band around 920 cm1 is assigned to VOAl stretching, which is gradually immerged with Mo doping and vanished over Mo1 V6. Meanwhile, a new band around 860 cm1 assigned to MoOV stretching emerges, further revealing the formation of MoVO mixed oxides. In addition, red shifts of V = O (994 cm1 to 987 cm1) and VOV (701 cm1 to 692 cm1) were observed in the MoVO mixed oxides (Figure S3), indicating the lattice distortion of VO bonds caused by Mo doping. Taken together, the local structural of MoVO mixed oxides was determined as Figure 1e.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) AC-HAADF-STEM image and (b) line profiles of Mo1 V6. Blue arrows point to Mo atoms. (c) XRD patterns. (d) Raman spectra: (a) VOx, (be) MoVO, V/Mo = 18, 12, 6, 4. (e) Schematic illustration of Mo-doped V2O5.
Before the reaction test, thermodynamic analysis was performed (Figure S4). The ΔG of CL-ODH over V2O5 is lower than 0 during 200500 C compared with PDH (ΔG > 0, 200500 C), suggesting lattice oxygen from V2O5 converts hydrogen intermediate or H2 to H2O and shifts the equilibrium toward C3H6. (13,14) A temperature-programmed reaction (C3H8-TPR) shows that the CH cleavage over MoVO (V/Mo = 6) starts at 300 C. However, a higher temperature at 450 C and a weaker C3H6 signal are observed when the prereduced V/Al2O3 is considered, according with the thermodynamic calculation that lattice oxygen enables propane dehydrogenation easier.
The reaction was performed via dehydrogenationregeneration cycles without cofeeding O2. See the Supporting Information for details. Figure 2a shows the evolution of gas product compositions over MoVO (V/Mo = 6) under 500 C and 2500 h1 GHSV. Three characteristic regions are distinguished: (I) overoxidation, (II) oxidative dehydrogenation, and (III) nonoxidative dehydrogenation. (9,15) In the oxidative dehydrogenation region, MoVO (V/Mo = 6) reaches 36% C3H8 conversion and 89% C3H6 selectivity with a instantaneous productivity of 6.9 mol C3H6/kg-cat/h at the 5th minute, breaking through the equilibrium yield (28%) via PDH at equivalent conditions (Figure 2b). Comparatively, nondoped VOx shows only 70% C3H6 selectivity due to 20% COx. During the overall dehydrogenation step, about 80% selectivity of C3H6 was achieved over MoVO (V/Mo = 6) (Figure 2c). (16,17) Compared with conventional ODH (4,18,19) and PDH (11) catalysts (Figure 2d), the MoVO mixed oxide remains superior.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Product profiles over MoVO (V/Mo = 6) with different reaction time. (b) Instantaneous performance at 5th min. VOx + MoOx represents the physical mixture of MoOx and VOx. VOx PDH represents the prereduced V/Al2O3 catalysts for PDH test. The straight dash line is the equilibrium yield of 28% via PDH. (c) Product profiles over MoVO (V/Mo = 6) during 100 cycles. (d) Performance comparisons. (1) ref (4); (2) ref (11); (3) ref (18); (4) ref (18); (5) ref (4); (6) ref (19); (7, 8) the cumulative performance obtained at 10th min in the dehydrogenation step over nondoped VOx and MoVO (V/Mo = 6) respectively; (9) instantaneous performance over MoVO (V/Mo = 6) at 5th min in dehydrogenation step.
A long-term stability test was conducted over Mo1 V6 for 100 dehydrogenationregeneration cycles. The optimal regeneration time was 10 minute to recover the structures and combust the coking (Figures S1315). Few changes of product compositions at  5th minute (Figure S16) and 10th minute (Figure S17) in the dehydrogenation step were observed during the 100 redox cycles, indicating that a stable CL-ODH performance was achieved over MoVO mixed oxides.
Surface oxidation states of V are crucial for propylene selectivity. (11,20) We introduced consecutive and interrupted propane pulses to investigate the surface reactions. Nondoped VOx is highly nonselective, producing a large amount of CO2 (Figure 3a). When an interruption of the inert purge is allowed, lower propylene selectivity is observed, indicating the evolution of bulk lattice oxygen to surface and forming nonselective oxygen. (21,22) Comparatively, no matter consecutive or interrupted pules of propane, there are no noticeable CO2 signals over Mo1 V6 (Figure 3b), revealing the promotion of Mo doping on propylene selectivity. (9,22)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Gas profile in transient pulses on (a) nondoped VOx and (b) MoVO (V/Mo = 6). (c) XPS spectra of V 2p2/3 and (d) H2-TPR profiles over nondoped VOx and MoVO mixed oxides. Models of (e) V2O5(001), (f, g) Mo-doped V2O5(001). Yellow, black, and blue circles represent the VO, VOV, and V3O, respectively.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) showed binding energies in spectra of V 2p2/3 at 517.7, 516.8, and 515.7 eV were assigned to V5+, V4+, and V3+ ions, respectively (Figure 3c). For Mo1 V6, increasing ratios of V4+ and V3+ were observed, which are more selective for propylene than V5+ (Table S4). Note that binding energies of Mo 3d for MoVO with increasing Mo doping showed a noticeable shift toward higher values. These may be due to the existence of strong interface interaction between Mo and V, wherein the electrons transferring from Mo to V decrease the ratios of V5+ (Figure S18). (23)
H2-temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) was further performed to detect the effect of such interaction on lattice oxygen reactivity (Figure 3d). The low-temperature peak α corresponds to changes in V valence state from V5+ to V4+, whereas the high-temperature peak β corresponds to the formation of V3+ from V4+. (24,25) With Mo doping, temperatures of the two peaks increase. However, total areas for the two reduction peaks do not change (Table S6). This indicates Mo doping increases the binding energy of VO bonds but not decreases the oxygen carrying capacity (4.6 mol O/kg-cat). Thermal gravity (TG) also showed the comparable oxygen release (4.7 wt %) between Mo1 V6 and nondoped VOx (Figure S20). However, the former showed a lower consumption rate (0.12 mg O/min). Because overoxidation of 1 mol propane to 3 mol CO2 consumes 10 mol oxygen atoms, higher than that in oxidative dehydrogenation reaction where 1 mol propane to 1 mol C3H6 and H2O only consumes 1 mol oxygen atom. This again confirms that nonselective oxygen to produce CO2 is significantly decreased by MoV interaction.
DFT calculations on optimized V2O5- and Mo-doped V2O5 indicated the Mo doping in V2O5 increased the binding energy of VO bonds (Figure 3e), inducing higher oxygen vacancy formation energy (2.85 eV for V = O, 4.20 eV for VOV and 4.49 eV for V3O) than that in nondoped VOx (2.19 eV for V = O, 3.01 eV for VOV and 3.03 eV for V3O) (Table S5). This revealed the suppressed oxygen reactivity as TPR results showed. (26,27)
To identify the evolution of lattice oxygen in CL-ODH, in situ Raman was further performed. With the temperature increasing, V = O stretching quickly vanished at 200 C. Meanwhile VOV stretching appeared and weakened at 100450 C (Figure 4a). At above 450 C, both of VO and VOV species vanished, suggesting VO and VOV species function as oxygen source in oxidative dehydrogenation period. Comparatively, V3O and VOMo species can be barely reduced even at 500 C. Meanwhile, the mode of coking (1600 cm1) occurred, indicating V3O and VOMo function as active sites catalyzing nonoxidative dehydrogenation.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) In situ Raman spectra, (b) dehydrogenation product profiles, and (c) in situ XRD patterns over MoVO (V/Mo = 6). (d) Scheme showing the proposed CL-ODH process over MoVO mixed oxides.
In situ XRD patterns showed that with lattice oxygen consuming, continuous phase transformation occurred over Mo1 V6 from 100 to 500 C, along with the disappearing reflections at 26.1 and 31.0 from V2O5, the intermediate reflections of 27.2 from VO2, and the intensified reflections at 33.1, 36.1, and 54.0 from V2O3 (Figure 4c). Comparatively, nondoped VOx showed a quicker transformation from V2O5 to V2O3 due to a quicker oxygen consumption rate (Figure S22). Additionally, ex situ XPS showed the fraction of V5+ decreased quickly than the crescendodecrescendo fraction of V4+ and increased fraction of V3+ (Figure S21 and Table S7), corresponding to the quickly decreased VO, crescendodecrescendo VOV, and increased V3O bands shown in Raman spectra.
Influenced by lattice oxygen evolution, different reaction regions are observed: an initial region influenced by CO2 from overoxidation (eq 1) and an oxidative dehydrogenation region dominated by C3H6 and H2O (eq 2) (Figure 4b). The Mo doping prevents propane from overoxidation and induces a selective pathway to C3H6 (Figure S23). With the depletion of lattice oxygen, V3+ and VOMo species serve as the catalytic sites in nonoxidative dehydrogenation (eq 3). The reaction periods of CL-ODH over MoVO mixed oxides are determined as follows (Figure 4d):
I: Overoxidation
(1)
II: Oxidative dehydrogenation
(2)
III: Nonoxidative dehydrogenation
(3)
In summary, the dual-functional MoVO mixed oxides afford high propylene selectivity of 89% and a very stable performance for 100 redox cycles. Combining in situ Raman, pulse injection and DFT calculation, we revealed the nonselective nature of V2O5 and the increased binding energy of VO bonds by Mo doping inhibited the lattice oxygen evolution for overoxidation. These new insights in metal oxide redox chemistry exemplified new approaches to develop functional mixed oxides via CL-ODH process toward alkane dehydrogenation and selective oxidation reactions.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 