<DOCUMENT>
Coke Deposition on Pt-Based Catalysts in Propane Direct Dehydrogenation: Kinetics, Suppression, and Elimination

Abstract
Pt-based catalysts are widely used in propane dehydrogenation to meet the dramatically increased demand of propylene from an on-purpose catalytic process. Although the process has been commercialized with high selectivity for decades, the prevention of coke deposition is still a daunting challenge. Herein, in order to provide a full coverage of the impact of coke deposition, we critically analyze the process of coke formation on Pt-based catalyst. First, the intrinsic nature of coke, including composition, distribution, and effects, is presented. The developments of kinetics model of coke growth are discussed and compared to offer insight into mechanism of coke formation. Moreover, the focus is put on the ways to prevent coke, which included cofeeding reductant gas, promoter, and support engineering. The advantage and limitation of each method is well elaborated, and the unique working principle behind each prevention method is uncovered. The new developments of single atom/site and confined metal cluster strategies are indicated. The regeneration of the deactivated catalyst is also discussed, which has a direct influence on the coke elimination and metal dispersion. In the end, the possible optimization strategies are suggested for the future Pt catalyst rational design. The current work provides a comprehensive summary of the coke formation, which lays out a solid and essential base for the further developments of Pt catalysts in propane direct dehydrogenation.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane dehydrogenation Pt-based catalysis coke formation kinetics promoter

1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
As one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry, the demands of propene have dramatically increased in recent years. (1) The conventional routes of obtaining propene are mainly related to stream or catalytic cracking of downstream products of the petroleum industry, which are extremely energy intensive with low selectivity. With the large-scale Shale gas discovery worldwide, (2−4) the abundance of light alkanes including methane, ethane, and propane open new opportunities to propene production. The on-purpose catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH, C3H8 ↔ C3H6 + H2) is one of the most promising and effective routes to massively produce propylene, which has been already exploited in industry. PDH is highly endothermic (ΔH298° = 124.3 kJ/mol), and the reaction temperature is normally above 500 °C. The reaction is limited by thermodynamics, and the yields of propene can be increased by lowering propane partial pressure or raising temperature. The catalysts of PDH could be divided into two classes: metal and metal oxide. The most representative catalysts of these two categories are platinum and chromium oxide, respectively. Platinum-based catalysts have been already employed in Oleflex commercial PDH process from the UOP company. (1) Polymer-quality propylene can be obtained from Oleflex technology. The regeneration of the catalyst in Oleflex proceeds via combustion of cokes with a chlorine-air mixture. Chromium oxide is another major industrial catalyst of PDH applied in Catofin process from Lummus. The chromium oxide is generally supported on alumina. One disadvantage of chromium oxide catalyst is the toxicity, which potentially causes issues with regard to safety and post-treatment. Except for platinum and chromium oxide, there are a bunch of other materials which are also investigated as PDH catalysts, including Fe, (5−7) Co, (8,9) Ru, (10) Rh, (11) VOx, (12,13) WOx, (14) GaOx, (15,16) and ZrOx. (17−19) Although these catalyst candidates show excellent activity in a laboratory test, they are still not industrially implemented.
Because of its high selectivity and decent durability in PDH, Pt-based catalysts have been extensively investigated for several decades. (20,21) However, there is still much room for further improvements of Pt catalysts in PDH. In particular, the coke formation during the reaction severely undermine the catalytic performance and stability. The deceptively simple reaction formula of PDH, in which two hydrogens are abstracted from propane, does not fully represent the complex network as shown in Figure 1. The various intermediates and propylene in PDH are prone to precede the deep reaction at elevated temperature, which ultimately leads to coke. Consequently, coke covers the metal catalysts and blocks access to the active site. Even worse, the removal of coke is not trivial. For example, the duration of the regeneration is the same as dehydrogenation in Catofin technology. Another side effect of coke removal is that the catalyst could agglomerate and lose activity under harsh conditions during regeneration. Therefore, it is urgent to find the effective ways to reduce coke during PDH.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Network of surface reactions of PDH. The black solid arrows represent the elementary reaction of C–H bond breaking and the red dashed arrows represent the elementary reaction of C–C bond breaking. All elementary reactions are reversible. Adapted from ref (34).
In fact, there are several different methods proposed in literature to lessen the coke formation in PDH. The cofeeding reductive gas such as hydrogen with propane can significantly reduce the coke formation. The alloying Pt with second metal such as Sn is extensively explored to reduce coke besides other beneficial effects. (22−24) It is indicated that Sn promoter could constrain Pt in a small ensemble, which is detrimental to side reactions. In addition to Sn, there are many reports of various transition metals, including Cu and Zn, which can be helpful to curb coke. (25,26) Supports are also of relevance to control coke formation. For example, the acid sites on the support are suggested to favor side reaction like polymerization. (27) Therefore, the modification of nature of support is a useful way to improve coke resistance. The size of the Pt catalyst is also a factor with significant influence on the reactivity and side reactions in PDH. The role of small-sized (around 3 nm) Pt particles is not yet clear in the literature. (28−30) Some studies indicated that they are very coke resistance, but the opposites were also reported. Interestingly, the single Pt atom catalyst recently was also examined in PDH, which reveals a different mechanism when reaching the size limit. (24,25) The computational simulations based on density functional theory (DFT) were very active in the exploration of PDH catalyst and provide important insight on the deactivation mechanism. A descriptor between the barrier of the C–H bond activation and propylene desorption are proposed from several DFT studies. (31−33) The descriptor can be a measure of balance between activity and selectivity. Moreover, the complex reaction network of PDH is also mapping out from DFT study. In our previous study, the kinetic Monte Carlo simulation based on DFT was performed to give a detailed description of coke precursor formation during PDH. (34) It is revealed that the geometry of the active sites has a pivotal importance to side reactions.
Recently, there were several excellent reviews which provide a comprehensive description of light alkane activation including propane dehydrogenation. (21,35−37) Although these articles supplied a solid ground to understand the C–H bond activation on metal or metal oxide catalysts, the coke formation is not a particular focus in these articles compared with the reaction mechanism, the nature of the active site, catalyst design, and so on. However, the broad subjects covered in these reviews limited the contents associated with coke formation, leading to a lack of in-depth analysis. Overall, there is still an absence of an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, which has an apparent importance on reactivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation.
In this Review, we are striving to give a concise and coherent description of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH from a comprehensive survey of literatures and provide the origin and nature of coke, which is scarcely discussed previously. The kinetic aspects of coke formation are also examined, which is also not covered in previous reviews. Moreover, the development and comparison of different methods to inhibit coke are elaborated. At the end, the catalyst regeneration and outlook for future improvements are supplied. The current work can be a timely summary for the stability of the metal catalyst in catalytic conversion of short alkane molecules.
2. THE ACQUAINTANCE OF COKE
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Composition, Distribution, and Consequence of Coke Deposition
The exact constituents of coke are not well resolved because of the complex process of the coke formation. Most studies broadly attributed coke as the deposition of undesirable organic compounds. (38) A recent study with gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and thermogravimetric (TG) analysis pin down the detailed components of coke under PDH on PtSn catalysts. It was suggested that the coke mainly consists of three kind of species: aliphatics, aromatics, and pregraphite. (39) The proportion of each kind of coke and species under their reaction condition were given, and the aliphatic cokes take up the larger part of coke deposition, with the ratio of C/H around 1.5. However, a coke hydrogenation study indicated that the species of coke deposition vary on different catalysts. (40) It is suggested that the species could be atomic carbon or aromatics on Pt/Al2O3 and C3 species on PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, respectively. Overall, the composition of cokes varies with reaction condition and catalytic system without a universal definition.
The coke distribution is all over the catalysts, including both active metal and inert support. The temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) analysis (22,41,42) revealed that there are two peaks when coke elimination happens, as shown in Figure 2a. One peak is around 325 °C, which is related to the coke on metal, and contains more hydrogens. The other one is at higher temperature around 425 °C, which is ascribed to the coke on the support. Moreover, the coke on the support can be further categorized into two types: one is easy to remove, and the other one, mainly graphitic coke, is more resistant, as shown in Figure 2b. (43) The coke on metal is easier to remove by oxidization than the counterpart on the support. The coke at different locations has distinct effects, and catalyst deactivation is mainly caused by coke on metal. (44) However, the coke on the support does not have a noticeable influence on activity and stability. This uncovers a guiding principle that the coke location is an important factor, not the absolute amount of coke. Specifically, Kumar et al. reported that cokes on Pt–Sn/SBA-15 catalyst were nearly 3 times the counterparts on Pt/SBA-15, however the former catalyst has better activity, selectivity and stability. (45) This phenomenon is partly explained by the fact that coke can be transferred from metal (type1) to support (type2) and keep active sites free from coking, (39,43,46,47) as shown in Figure 2c. Although more coke is yielded, the activity is not affected because the support accommodates most cokes. In the end, the coke distribution is a factor which can be adjusted to prolong the life of catalyst.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Two types of coke identified by TPO; S1–S3 represent different ratios of propane, propylene and hydrogen in feed gas. (22) (b) Three types of coke identified by TPO. (43) (c) Amount of different types of coke over time on Pt and Pt–Sn catalysts. (43)
One of most direct observations of coke influence is that the catalyst becomes black after the reaction. It is quite straightforward to conclude that cokes will block the active sites and destabilize the catalysts from experimental observation. However, DFT calculations reveal more information on the coke effect at the molecular level. The calculations demonstrate that the energy barrier for dehydrogenation significantly increase when carbon atom adsorption at the nearby site. Moreover, the coadsorbed C atoms downshift the d-band center of Pt, which consequently decreases the activity toward C–H bond activation according to d-band theory. (48) More interesting, the coke seem to have some positive effects on the selectivity of propylene. The DFT calculations reveal that the adsorption energy of propylene on the graphene partially covered Pt (111) surface is significant lower than on clean surface. This gives a hint that the desorption of propylene is easier on the coked covered surface than the clean surface, which leads to good selectivity. (42) Our previous DFT-based kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) simulation indicated that the coke precursors affect the geometry and number of exposed active sites, leading to lower activity but higher selectivity and lower coking rate. (34) This is similar to doping of catalysts by an inactive metal, such as Sn and Cu. Therefore, the origin of higher selectivity and lower coking rate in the steady state than in the quick deactivation state could be attributed to the electronic effect and geometric effect introduced by coke deposition itself.
In this section, the composition, distribution, and effect of coking are described in detail, as they are the prerequisite knowledge to effectively curb coke and extend durability of catalyst. The composition and distribution are the intrinsic nature of coke. There are also more uncertainties regarding these two aspects because of the dependence on reaction condition and catalyst. Although the exact composition of coke is still under debate, the precursors of coke are most likely to be from the deep dehydrogenation. Therefore, the prevention of the precursor could cut off coke formation from beginning. The distribution of coke has distinct effects on the stability. The methods which induce the facile coke between the catalyst and the support could potentially enhance stability. The coke effects on the activity and durability of the catalyst are devastating and inevitable. Therefore, it is urgently needed to develop an effective strategy to inhibit coke formation, as discussed in section 3.
2.2. Kinetics of Coke Formation
Kinetics has an obvious importance in understanding the coke formation process. Unfortunately, this aspect has been seldom discussed or completely neglected in previous reviews. First of all, the coke is formed immediately when the catalyst is exposed to propane, as shown in Figure 3. Operando Raman spectroscopy analysis of PDH on Pt/Al2O3 shows that the coke forms rapidly in the first few minutes, and then the intensity of the coke species slowly drops to a constant over an hour. (49,50) The initial coke formation quickly covers the active sites. Then, the occupation of available sites significantly reduced the rates of coke formation after initial stage. (51) However, the process of coke formation is complex because various intermediates during PDH can undergo deep reaction and lead to coke formation. Nevertheless, several kinetic models of coke formation have been proposed.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Amount of coke over time for different temperatures from experimental data and monolayer–multilayer coke growth model prediction. (51)
First, a simple relation between the concentration of coke with time,
(A)
was given by Voorhies. (52)Cc is the concentration of coke, t is time, A and n are constants depending on the reaction condition, such as catalyst, temperature, and pressure of reactant. This expression fitted the several experiments well with different value of A and n. (52) However, coke concentration is exponential function with only one independent variable, t, in model A. Other empirical formulas were further developed. (53) The deactivation function, φc, was introduced to account for the effect of catalyst deactivation on the formation rate of coke as follows:
(B1)
several formula of deactivation function, φc, were tested by 50 experiments and
(B2)
fitted the data best. (54)rc0 is the initial rate of coke formation. Although model A and B could fit some experimental data well, little progress has been achieved with regard to understanding the coke formation in detail. Moreover, the physical meaning of the constants is absent, which hinders the rational restraint of cokes.
A more sophisticated model called monolayer–multilayer coke growth model (MMCGM) was raised by Nam et al., which delivers deeper insight in describing the process of coke formation. (55) It is used to describe the formation of coke in PDH widely. (51,56,57) In those studies, the coke has been divided into two types: the monolayer coke and the multilayer coke. The monolayer coke quickly covers the active sites and deactivates the catalyst, and its formation rate is related to the number of free active sites. In addition, the multilayer coke began to grow as soon as the monolayer coke formed, and the rate of multilayer coke formation is related to the amount of monolayer:
(C1)
(C2)
(C3)
Cc is the total coke concentration, Cm is the concentration of monolayer coke, CM is the concentration of multilayer coke, Cmax is the maximum concentration of monolayer coke, ki is kinetic constant, and ni is the kinetic order.
Moreover, the MMCGM was further improved by Annaland et al. (58) They performed a dual coke growth kinetic model to describe the coke formation. In their model, the polymerization of adsorbed propylene was considered as the pathway of coke formation. First, propylene formed a propylene dimer (PD). Then PD reacts with propylene to form coke precursor (CP). The monolayer coke is formed through the reaction between CP and PD or propylene. Finally, the multilayer coke is formed from monolayer coke. The formation of coke deposits is an oligomerization process. Although the mechanism is straightforward, the mode is simplified with only considering propylene as the source of coke. However, it still does not fully describe the complex reaction of coke formation in PDH.
A more thorough kinetic model was investigated by Li et al. (59) The deep dehydrogenation and crack from propane to the C atom and the polymerization of propylene are both considered. Moreover, the effect of hydrogen on coke formation rate is also introduced. The mechanism is represented as
Considering the effect of H2 in preventing coking, the partial pressure of H2 is included in the formula for the rate of coke formation. Besides, only propylene is considered a precursor. Then the coking rate is written as
(D1)
(D2)
rc is the rate of coke formation, ac is the activity of the catalyst for coking, k is coking reaction rate constant, PC3H6 and PH2 are the partial pressures of C3H6 and H2, K is adsorption equilibrium constants of H2, Cc is the concentration of coke, and Cmax is the maximum concentration of coke. This model was used to simulate the deactivation of PDH in pore structure catalysts recently. (60) Besides, the individual site poisoning model was developed for coke formation, which indicates that the rate of coke deposition is proportional to the available sites for coke formation. (61)
The evolutions from Model A to D gradually increase the sophistication and reach for more universal description. Models A and B only discussed the relationship between the coke concentration and time. The fitness of the models are valid within a range of parameters. However, the models lack a sound interpretation of the mechanism of coke formation. However, MMCGM divides the coke into two types. The influences of different kind of cokes are explicitly included in the expression. The improved model based on MMCGM by Annaland et al. considers the details of coke formation as polymerization of propylene in PDH. Model D includes the polymerization of propylene and C atom adsorption as the formation of coke. Therefore, these two remedies pin down to detailed pathways of coke formation which make them more realistic for description of coke in PDH. Although those models show certain success, all of these models are still insufficient to fully cover the process of coke formation because of the extreme complexity of cokes which can arise from reactants, products, intermediates, or combinations of them. It is envisioned that the effective cooperation between advanced experimental techniques and microkinetic/kMC simulation which included all relevant elementary steps could further push the boundary of coke kinetics.
3. Suppression and Elimination of Coke Deposition
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. The Effect of Cofeed
3.1.1. Cofeed of Hydrogen
Propane is usually cofed with hydrogen in the industrial PDH process. It is suggested that hydrogen decreases the rate of coke formation and increases the stability of the catalyst by removing the precursor of coke. (43) The computational simulations verified this explanation that the energy barrier of dehydrogenation of propylene is increased when H adsorbs on the Pt surface, which prevents deep reaction. (62) The similar observation is obtained on several Pt surfaces, such as Pt(111) and Pt(100). (48) Moreover, for a conventional Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst, the reduced rate of coke formation is mainly ascribed to less coke accumulation on the support in hydrogen atmosphere, as shown in Figure 4a. The coke amount on metal is almost unchanged, but the coke amount on the support is decreased with increasing pressure of hydrogen. (22) In the hydrogen atmosphere, the acidity of the support is weakened by conversion from Lewis acid site to Brønsted acid sites, which is helpful to reduce the rate of coking on the support. Additionally, the graphitization of coke is positively correlated with hydrogen partial pressure. (49) This implied that it is harder to remove coke under hydrogen feeding because the highly ordered graphitic coke is combusted at higher temperature.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Relationship between rates of different coke formation and partial pressures of H2. S1–S5 and S7 are experiments under different feed compositions, black for coke on the metal and red for coke on the support. (22) (b) The relationship between TOF of propane and propylene and partial pressures of H2O. (63)
3.1.2. Cofeed of Water
Moreover, a small amount of water in the feed was reported to decrease the coke formation and increase the activity. (24,57,63,64) The addition of H2O decreases the apparent activation energy of propane conversion, but also decreases the selectivity of propylene, as shown in Figure 4b. However, the DFT calculation showed that the energy barrier of elementary reactions in PDH are increasing slightly when H2O existed. (63) Therefore, the effect of steam in improving activity could be ascribed to the low coking rate, which leads to a high percentage of free active sites. (63) In particular, the amount of coke decreases significantly on PtSn/CeO2 (decreasing by 82%) and PtSn/Al2O3 (decreasing by 90%) under moisture. (24)
3.2. The Modification of Active Component
3.2.1. Effect of Structure and Size
The most straightforward method to curb coke is to modify the structure and composition of the Pt catalyst. For example, the size and structure of the Pt particle significantly affects the performance. The catalyst containing smaller Pt particles has higher activity but also a higher rate of coke formation, leading to more coke depositions. (28,30) The larger surface area of the smaller Pt particles is responsible for the higher coking rate, as shown in Figure 5a. (28) Furthermore, the phenomena is explained as the smaller particles include plenty of undercoordinated sites which are very active in C–H and C–C bond activation. (65) Besides, the energy barrier of C–H bond breaking is lower than the energy barrier of propylene desorption at undercoordinated sites, which is leading to the occurrence of deep reaction. (66) Therefore, the geometry and size of Pt has an apparent importance for coke formation. Moreover, the size and exposed surfaces are also found to influence the reaction mechanism and kinetics of PDH. (28,67)
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Effect of Pt catalyst size. (28) (b) Amount of cokes on the Pt-based catalysts with different promoter and support. (79) (c) Time evolution of coke deposition of supported Pt catalysts with support doping. (44)
3.2.2. Effect of Promoter
As mentioned in section 2.1, adding promoter is one of the most effective methods to modify the nature of Pt catalyst. Tin is the most widely applied promoter for Pt, which has enhanced improvements in many reports. (40,46,65,68−71) The main effect of Sn is to improve the selectivity and stability as shown in entries 1–3 of Table 1. Moreover, the coke precursor adsorbed weakly on PtSn, which enables the easy transfer from metal to support. (72) By this method, the active components are kept intact, which delivers good activity and stability. (45) The improvements induced by Sn promoter are usually attributed to geometry effects and electronic effects, respectively. The infrared spectroscopy indicated that the Sn blocked the undercoordinated sites and constrained Pt particles into smaller ensembles. (73) Moreover, the transmission electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and H2-chemisorption analysis shows that addition of Sn led to higher dispersion of Pt. (45) Hence, the Sn promoter significantly changed the geometry of Pt catalysts. Furthermore, the electronic effect is also revealed. The X-ray absorption near edge structure spectra showed that the absorption edge is shifted to higher energy, indicating Sn withdraws electrons from Pt. (74) Besides, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy shows the oxidized Sn is formed in PtSn/Mg-SBA-15 catalyst. (75)
Table 1. Catalytic Performance (Initial Activity, Selectivity, Stability, and Coke) of Various Pt-Based Catalystsa
method entry element original catalyst initial activity (activity or conversion) selectivity coke
metal promote 1 Sn Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 47 lmol·s–1·gcat–1 88%, 99% 73, 38 atc/atPt
2 Sn Pt/CeO2 (24) 100%, 39.5% 0, 84.5% 0.9, 0.5 wt %
3 Sn Pt/SBA-15-IW (45) 11%, 16% 77%, 99% ∼ 0.1, ∼ 0.3 wt %
4 Cu Pt/Al2O3 (25) 52%, 44% 77.2%, 90.8% N/A
5 Cu Pt/Al2O3 (33) 14%, 40% 54%, 76% N/A
6 In Pt/Mg(Al)O (81) 22.9%, 27.5% 94%, 97.5% N/A
7 Ga Pt/Al2O3 (79) 45.5%, 39.4% 81.8%, 99.5% 1.12, 0.73 mg·h–1·gcat–1
8 Ga Pt/CeO2–Al2O3 (79) 47.1%, 41.1% 86%, 99.6% 0.98, 0.41 mg·h–1·gcat–1
9 Ga Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 26 lmol·s–1·gcat–1 88%, 98% 73, 25 atc/atPt
10 Al PtSn/SBA-15 (83) 50.8%, 55.9% 99.2%, 99.1% N/A
11 Na PtSn/SUZ-4 (86) 12.8%, 20.2% 82%, 92% 14.5, 8 wt %
12 Ca PtSn/ZSM-5 (85) 35.1%, 34.7% 54%, 76% 12.8, 4.5 wt %
support additive 13 Ce Pt/Al2O3 (79) 45.5%, 47.1% 81.8%, 86% 1.12, 0.98 mg·h–1·gcat–1
14 Ce Pt3Ga/Al2O3 (79) 39.4%, 41.1% 99.5%, 99.6% 0.73, 0.41 mg·h–1·gcat–1
15 Zn PtSn/Al2O3 (87) 50%, 50% 90%, 97% 6.1, 4.9 wt %
16 Ga Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 53 lmol·s–1·gcat–1 88%, 99% 73, 11 atc/atPt
17 Ga Pt/Mg(Al)O (44) 32, 74 μmol·s–1·gcat–1 87%, 99% 50, ∼ 25 atc/atPt
18 Ti Pt/Al2O3 (89) 50.5%, 47.3% 78.5%, 89.5% 10.6, 14.7 wt %
19 In Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 67 lmol·s–1·gcat–1 88%, 98% 73, 27 atc/atPt
aThe value before comma in each column is the original catalyst, and the other value is the counterpart obtained after inclusion of metal promoter and support additive.
Furthermore, both effects have been intensively studied by DFT calculations. Specifically, the electronic effect is found to influence the energy barrier of dehydrogenation and desorption of products, and the geometry effect has effects on the local coverage of free sites for the side reaction. The energy barrier and coverage could change the reaction rate as suggested by the rate law. For example, Nykänen and Honkala study the adsorption of propane and propylene on three different Pt–Sn alloy surfaces, Pt3Sn(111), Pt3Sn/Pt(111), and PtSn2(111). (76) The results show that the increasing Sn concentrations downshifted the d-band center, which leads to decreasing activity. Bader charge analysis showed that charge transfers from Sn to Pt atoms. Both appear to weaken the adsorption of propylene. In addition, the energy barriers of elementary reactions on the Pt–Sn alloyed surface were investigated by Yang et al. (31) Their results showed that the addition of Sn not only increases the energy barrier of propane and propylene dehydrogenation but also decreases the number of free sites that accommodate the product of cracking reactions, which lead to higher selectivity but lower activity. It is suggested that the Pt3Sn bulk alloy is the best candidate. Later, the calculations based on Pt3Sn(211) indicate that high selectivity and low coking amount on the Pt–Sn catalyst can be originated from the absence of active Pt step sites. (77) It is generally proposed that the electronic effect dominates at low Sn loading, whereas the geometric effect is more important at high Sn loading. (78)
Besides Sn, other non-noble metals such as Cu, Al, and In have also been studied as promoters. The Pt/Al2O3 catalyst shows the improved selectivity and anticoking ability after promoted by Cu. It is suggested that the effects of Cu are similar to Sn. The favorable performance is attributed to the bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu (entry 4, Table 1). (25) Besides, the Pt/Cu single atom alloy shows a high stability in PDH. The catalyst exhibited a large difference between the energy barrier of desorption and deep dehydrogenation, which is helpful to prevent coke formation and leads to the high selectivity and stability (entry 5, Table 1). (33) Moreover, the addition of In could reduce the acidity strength of the catalyst and form PtIn alloy. The In-modified Pt catalyst shows a lower activity than the counterpart of Sn promoter, but with a better stability (entry 6, Table 1). (80,81) The introduction of Ga forms PtGa alloy on the Pt/CeO2–Al2O3 catalyst. PtGa alloy decreases the size of Pt ensembles and blocks the defective sites, leading to the higher selectivity (entries 7–9, Table 1). On the other hand, Ga could also incorporate into CeO2 and enhance the surface oxygen mobility and capacity which is beneficial for stability (entries 13–14, Table 1). (79) Both of them reduce the amount of coke as shown in Figure 5b. In our previous work, the Pt cluster which is bonded with inactive spices is helpful to increase stability. (34) Furthermore, the Pt ensembles with connected free sites lower than 3 are unfavorable for deep dehydrogenation. Hence, it seems that the monatomic Pt wire or Pt single atom surrounded by inactive metal is a good candidate for a PDH catalyst. (26,82)
3.2.3. Third Element Based on Sn Promoter
Further elements are introduced to tune the catalytic performance based on PtSn. The performances of a series of PtSnAl/SBA-15 catalysts show that the higher Al concentration leads to higher coke formation rate. (83) The addition of Al introduces more acid centers, which accelerates the formation of coke. It is determined that the optimal composition is PtSnAl0.2/SBA-15 (entry 10, Table 1). In contrast, the K addition is deemed to block the acid sites and leads to higher selectivity for PtSn/Al2O3. (84) Additionally, the best performance is observed on 0.49 wt % of K loading. By a similar rationale, the addition of Ca and Na also reduces the coke contents significantly as shown in entries 11–12 of Table 1. (85,86) However, the excess of these promoters might result in performance degradation. (84−86)
3.3. The Modification of Support
3.3.1. Doping of Support
The active components are anchored and dispersed by the support. The interactions between the catalyst and the support often have a direct influence on the activity, such as PDH. (23,44,79) The conventional support of a commercial Pt catalyst in PDH is Al2O3, which is acidic and is inclined to coke deposition. Therefore, the modification of supports is necessary to improve the anticoke ability of the catalyst. Vu et al. found that Pt–Sn/ZnAl2O4 shows higher tolerance for deactivation than Pt–Sn/Al2O3 on PDH due to the different coke mobility from metal to support (entry 15, Table 1). (87) The origin of the mobility of coke is caused by the contents of PtSn and Pt3Sn induced by different support during the reaction. Only PtSn alloy is formed on Pt–Sn/ZnAl2O4 while the PtSn and Pt3Sn are both appeared on Pt–Sn/Al2O3. The higher Sn brings the weaker adsorption of hydrocarbon which consequently increases the mobility of coke. The PtSn/Ce–Al2O3 catalyst shows a better performance on coking suppression and stability than PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst. It is concluded that the synergistic effects between Ce and Sn are working to prevent coking and Ce alone does not bring too much difference. (88) The Ga modification of Mg(Al)O support yields better performance for supported Pt and PtSn catalysts (entries 16–17, Table 1). The better performance is ascribed to the formation of PtGa alloy. Moreover, it is hypothesized that Ga could also influence the catalytic performance of Pt at surface in a similar way as Sn, which reduces the amount of coke as shown in Figure 5c. (44) The experiments on the TiO2–Al2O3 supported Pt catalyst show that the addition of TiO2 not only increases the electron density of Pt but also introduces the acid centers on the support. The former is helpful for selectivity and coke diffusion from the metal to the support, and the latter facilitates coking accumulation on the support. (89) With the optimal content of TiO2 (10 wt %), the catalyst would have a better performance by transferring coke from the active component to the support and leaving the active component free (entry 18, Table 1).
The metal oxide support usually presents certain acidity; for example, Lewis acid sites formed on the defective AIII site in Al2O3, (90) and Brønsted acid sites could be provided by the additional proton. (83) The both acid sites are active for C–H bond activation; however, the Lewis acid site is assumed to be more active for dehydrogenation, and the Brønsted acid site is for cracking. (90−92) The acidic strength is usually tested by NH3-TPD experiments, the desorption peaks in the regions of 120–200 °C, 200–350 °C, and 350–450 °C correspond to the weak, medium, and strong acid sites, respectively. (89) The formation of coke on oxides could be attributed to coke precursors formed by the cracking reaction. (93) The more acid sites and stronger acidity will lead to a significant amount of coke deposition. (72,89,94,95)
3.3.2. Pore Structure
The pore structure of the support is another factor which has a significant role in coke formation. (96) The acidity of the support was decreased after the modification of the pore structure of ZSM-5 by introducing hierarchical-pores, (96) which inhibits the formation of coke on the metal and improves the capacity of the support for coke. Moreover, the pore size has a direct effect on performance of PDH. The Pt catalysts on the microporous support show better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amount than the counterpart on the mesoporous support. (97) The simulation of the effect of the pore structure of the support on coking formation and deactivation shows that the structure of the pore could affect the coke accommodation. A support with more uniform, higher connected, and larger-sized pores could accommodate more cokes. (60)
As summarized in Table 1, most of the appropriate modification methods increase the activity and selectivity and decrease the amount of coke. Moreover, the transfer of coke from metal to support is accountable for the unexpected good performance when the total cokes are increased.
3.4. New Strategy: Single Atom/Site and Confined Cluster
In recent days, the new strategies of catalysts’ design in PDH are proposed and verified to effectively curb coke formation. The concept of a single atom/site is applicable for Pt catalysts, which achieve not only good activity but also impressive stability. The propane dehydrogenation is not a size-sensitive reaction. (98,99) Furthermore, the side reactions such as hydrogenolysis are size-dependent. This difference opened the opportunity which can achieve good activity and reduce cokes by diminishing side reactions from the rational adjustment of catalyst size. Under this principle, single atom/site strategies were explored to optimize PDH performance. Additionally, a nanosized Pt cluster, in particular confined in zeolite, demonstrated unique geometrical and electronic properties, which is different from conventional supported Pt clusters on open support. This difference is key to stabilize the metal cluster and minimize the coke formation. These two aspects of new strategies to design PDH catalysts are discussed below.
3.4.1. Single Atom/Site
Sun et al. successfully synthesized a Pt/Cu single atom alloy supported on γ-alumina and applied in propane direct dehydrogenation. (33) They found that the catalyst delivered the propylene selectivity of ∼90% with the formation rate of 10.6 mol·gPt–1·h–1 at 520 °C. Moreover, the stable performance is verified for at least 120 h. The success of the catalysts was concluded from the breaking of the scaling relation between the C–H bond activation energy and propene adsorption. In general, Pt alloy, in particular Pt3M (M = transition metal), has a low barrier for C–H bond activation in propane. Unfortunately, it was accompanied with strong adsorption of propene, which led to unfavorable desorption. The single Pt surrounded by inert Cu significantly reduced the barrier of propene desorption which make the products’ desorption become favorable over the deep dehydrogenation. Consequently, the cokes are largely diminished as evidenced by the lifetime of the catalyst. Following a similar rationale, Nakaya et al. applied the Pt/Ga single atom alloy in PDH. (32) One of the interesting strategies adopted in this work is that Pt3Ga sites are selectively blocked by Pb, while the single Pt site was unchanged. The comparison between PtGa and PtGa-Pb catalysts indicated that the former deactivated very fast because coke formation, and the latter delivered a stable performance of 99.6% selectivity for 96 h at elevated temperature. Zhang et al. examined the cokes’ formation on a series different loading of Pt supported on alumina. (29) After PDH, it was observed that there are barely cokes found on 0.1 wt % loading Pt, which is corresponding to an atomic dispersed catalyst. In contrast, the amount of cokes on 3 wt % loading is nearly 4 times bigger than the counterpart on 0.1% loading. Multiple Pt–Pt sites at high loading catalysts favor side reactions which are leading to coke formation. Overall, it is clearly demonstrated that single Pt atom has a good balance between dehydrogenation activity and coke regulation.
A single Pt site also possessed good resistance to coke formation. For example, Chen et al. successfully synthesized a single-site [PtZn4] catalyst. (26) They identified that a single-site on the catalyst is a Pt atom separated by four neighboring Zn as imaged from an aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (AC-HAADF-STEM). The single-site [PtZn4] catalyst significantly outperformed the conventional PtSn catalyst, in particular regarding coke formation, as shown in Figure 6a. It was indicated that [PtZn4] has no obvious deactivation during a 160 h test, and the conversion drop is only 0.04%. In contrast, a conventional PtSn catalyst shows a decrease of conversion from the initial 34.8% to 11.7% under the same condition. Further analysis reveals that the electrons from neighboring Zn transferred to Pt, which induced the electron accumulation. The rich electrons at Pt reduced the binding energy of propene and accelerated its desorption which prevent the further dehydrogenation and decrease coke formation. Overall, the application of single atom/site not only significantly reduce the coke formation but also create a new direction to optimize PDH performance.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) AC-HAADF-STEM images of Pt and PtSn catalysts and corresponding catalytic performance and stability. (26) (b) Schematic illustration of confined PtSn cluster in zeolite and related catalytic performance. (71)
3.4.2. Confined Pt Cluster
Recently, Corma’s group developed a series PtSn cluster catalysts which are confined in zeolite and applied in PDH. (71) Although PtSn is the conventional PDH catalyst, the intriguing feature of the obtained catalyst is that the region selective deposition of PtSn cluster within zeolite. The subnanometer (0.5–0.6 nm) PtSn cluster is precisely located in sinusoidal 10R channels of siliceous MFI zeolite. The anchor site of the cluster is very important which renders not only the good stability without obvious sintering but also excellent resistance to cokes. Under the real industrial condition, the K-PtSn@MFI catalyst showed an initial propane conversion of ∼20% at 550 °C and an initial selectivity to 97% propylene. More importantly, the propane conversion slightly decreased from 20% to 17% during a 70 h reaction, which indicates the superior stability. Furthermore, the role of Sn was uncovered to have distinct features from previous reports. It was suggested that the minimal interactions between Pt and Sn are sufficient to suppress coke formation. Sn is in close proximity with the Pt cluster, but it is not forming an intermetallic alloy compound as shown in Figure 6b.
Ryoo et al. used a mesoporous zeolite with surface framework defects as PDH catalyst support. (82) It was found that rare-earth elements such as La and Y can be trapped at these defective sites as atomic species. The much increased chemical potential of atomic La and Y enable them to form an intermetallic compound with Pt. Moreover, La/Y also enhanced the strong metal–support interaction which increased catalyst dispersion. The synthesized PtLa/Y cluster with 3 nm diameter uniformly distributed within zeolite. The confined PtLa/Y cluster exhibited remarkable stability in PDH. Pt3La/Y catalysts has an initial 40% conversion and still retain 8% conversion after 30 days of reaction under a harsh condition and large space velocity. The excellent stability in PDH was also reported for PtZn cluster encapsulated in silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite. The catalysts have extraordinary low deactivation constant of 0.001 h–1, which is 200 times lower than the counterpart supported on Al2O3. (100) Overall, the mesoporous structure of zeolite yields a confined space for Pt-based cluster, and the unique interactions between them are accountable for the observed activity and stability.
3.5. Regeneration of Catalyst
Although the prevention of coke formation achieved impressive progress, the coke deposition is still unavoidable in PDH. Thus, it is mandatory to periodically regenerate the catalyst in industry. The main method to regenerate the coke-covered catalyst is to burn coke with oxidant. A low burning temperature means low energy consumption and cost. Besides, high temperature leads to the sintering of the active component. Hence, the control of burning temperature of coke is of great importance.
As aforementioned, the introduction of Sn could cause the transfer of coke from active site to support. A side effect of this practice is that the coke on the support is more difficult to remove than on metal. For example, the oxidation peak of coke shifts to a high temperature with the increasing contents of Sn, as shown in Figure 7. (101) Hence, the improvements of catalytic performance might cause the difficulty in regenerating the catalyst.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Coke combustion temperature in different Sn content: (a) 0% Sn, (b) 0.29% Sn, (c) 0.53% Sn, and (d) 1.67% Sn. (101)
Additionally, support engineering is a useful way to tune the burning temperature of coke. The different supports have distinct performance in burning coke. The oxidation temperature of coke on several supports is Pt/CeZrO2 < Pt/CeO2 < Pt/MgO < Pt/Al2O3 < Pt/SBA-15. The observed sequence is attributed to the different mobility of activated oxygen species on the support. (102,103) The largest temperature difference, between Pt/CeZrO2 and Pt/SBA-15, reaches 250 °C. However, the regeneration by burning coke also caused Pt sintering. Hence, further oxychlorination is often used to keep the high disperse of Pt. (104)
4. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, coke deposition is a crucial issue for the commercial Pt-based catalysts, and many efforts have been made to understand and alleviate the detrimental effects. The structure, composition, and location of cokes are the prerequisite to inhibit coke formation. It is revealed that these factors are entangled, and the details regarding coke composition are still under debate. The kinetics of coke growth has an apparent importance for coke formation. Although there are several models available, none of them could resolve the mechanism at the molecular level. The cofeeding gas, metal promoter, and support modification are the verified effective methods to prevent coke formation. The cofeeding of hydrogen can remove the coke precursor and weaken the acidity of the support. Furthermore, hydrogens also aggregate the degree of coke graphitization which requires a higher regeneration temperature. The promoters, such as Sn, directly tune the catalytic properties of Pt from both a geometry and electronic perspective, which simultaneously increase activity and stability. However, the optimal kind and loading of promoter is still not concluded as there is a lack of guiding principle to govern a search. The additive to conventional support alumina can modify the acid/base strength and facilitate the coke transfer between metal and support. New developments of effective catalyst design are also noted. The success of single atom/site strategy wisely exploited the different size dependence of dehydrogenation and side reaction in PDH. The confined subnanosized Pt cluster in zeolite could be deposited at particular position with the unique interaction between catalyst and support, which exhibited excellent resistance to coke formation. Although these methods indeed alleviate the coke formation, the regeneration is still needed to prolong the life of the catalyst. Some strategies seem to be useful to lower temperature in regeneration which is important to reduce cost and stabilize activity. In the end, the collaborations between experimental and computational techniques are urgently needed to address the complicated issue in heterogeneous catalysis such as coke formation. On the basis of the previous studies, three aspects are proposed to reduce the effect of coke further:
1. The advance of novel design of active center: the geometry of active site has been verified to be a crucial factor to control coke formation. The rationale is that single Pt has been sufficient to abstract hydrogen from propane, while side reactions such as hydrogenolysis required multiple Pt–Pt site. Hence, the catalyst with a small ensemble of Pt, such as atomic Pt wire and Pt single atom/site surrounding by inactive elements, seems to be a good candidate, which may be synthesized via alloying and spatial confinement by support. (105) In addition, the local environment has significant impact on single Pt atom/site as indicated in the other single atom catalysts. (106,107) In particular, these inert surrounding coordinated species induced significant charge transfer from/to an active center, which consequently modifies the electronic structure. It is obvious that the combinations of active species and neighboring elements will be enormous. It is suggested that machine learning can be exerted to meet this challenge. The data from either experiment or computation feed into a machine learning model, which not only efficiently screens highly effective catalysts candidates but also possibly identifies a valid descriptor.
2. The coke migration: it is evident that coke formation is inevitable in PDH. To accommodate more cokes before regeneration is an effective way to extend the durability of the catalyst. The coke migration from the active metal to the support is a feasible way to keep activity. The migration is closely connected with the nature of the metal and the properties of the support, such as mobility of oxygen and structure of pores. Moreover, the interface between the metal and the support also determine the coke migration to some extent. Therefore, to resolve the mechanism of coke migration will require both experimental characterization and DFT simulation. The latter is capable to give a detailed description of metal–support interaction. (108,109)
3. The kinetics of coke formation: most available models provide a phenomenological description. Investigations of coke kinetics at the molecular level and the transformation between disordered coke and graphitic coke are extremely scarce, which hinders the discovery of effective methods to suppress coke. The difficulties are most likely originated from the diversity of coke precursor and complex network. Although it is not straightforward to extrapolate to coke on Pt, the methodologies adopted for graphene growth on a metal catalyst might be a potential candidate to supply more insights, which included large-scale kinetic Monte Carlo simulations (110−112) and molecular dynamics. (113−115)
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Bo Li - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8895-2054;  Email: boli@imr.ac.cn
Authors
Zan Lian - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China
Chaowei Si - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China
Faheem Jan - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China
ShuaiKe Zhi - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, People’s Republic of China
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgments
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21573255). This work was also supported by Joint Research Fund Liaoning-Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science and the State Key Laboratory of Catalytic Materials and Reaction Engineering (RIPP, SINOPEC). The computations were also supported by the Special Program for Applied Research on Super Computation of the NSFC Guangdong Joint Fund (the second phase) under Grant No. U1501501.
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 115 other publications.
1Carrero, C. A.; Schloegl, R.; Wachs, I. E.; Schomaecker, R. Critical Literature Review of the Kinetics for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over Well-Defined Supported Vanadium Oxide Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 3357– 3380,  DOI: 10.1021/cs5003417 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
2Zou, C.; Zhao, Q.; Dong, D.; Yang, Z.; Qiu, Z.; Liang, F.; Wang, N.; Huang, Y.; Duan, A.; Zhang, Q.; Hu, Z. Geological characteristics, main challenges and future prospect of shale gas. J. Nat. Gas Geosci. 2017, 2, 273– 288,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jnggs.2017.11.002 [Crossref], Google Scholar
3Ma, Y.; Cai, X.; Zhao, P. China’s shale gas exploration and development: Understanding and practice. Pet. Explor. Dev. 2018, 45, 589– 603,  DOI: 10.1016/S1876-3804(18)30065-X [Crossref], Google Scholar
4Wang, Z.; Krupnick, A. A Retrospective Review of Shale Gas Development in the United States: What Led to the Boom?. Econ. Energy Environ. Policy 2015, 4, 5– 18,  DOI: 10.5547/2160-5890.4.1.zwan [Crossref], Google Scholar
5Tan, S.; Hu, B.; Kim, W.-G.; Pang, S. H.; Moore, J. S.; Liu, Y.; Dixit, R. S.; Pendergast, J. G.; Sholl, D. S.; Nair, S.; Jones, C. W. Propane Dehydrogenation over Alumina-Supported Iron/Phosphorus Catalysts: Structural Evolution of Iron Species Leading to High Activity and Propylene Selectivity. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 5673– 5683,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.6b01286 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
6Sarazen, M. L.; Jones, C. W. MOF-Derived Iron Catalysts for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Phys. Chem. C 2018, 122, 28637– 28644,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b08066 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
7Wang, P.; Senftle, T. P. Theoretical insights into non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation over Fe3C. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2021, 23, 1401– 1413,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CP04669H [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
8Dewangan, N.; Ashok, J.; Sethia, M.; Das, S.; Pati, S.; Kus, H.; Kawi, S. Cobalt-Based Catalyst Supported on Different Morphologies of Alumina for Non-oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation: Effect of Metal Support Interaction and Lewis Acidic Sites. ChemCatChem 2019, 11, 4923– 4934,  DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201900924 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
9Wang, Q.; Xu, W.; Ma, Z.; Yu, F.; Chen, Y.; Liao, H.; Wang, X.; Zhou, J. Highly Effective Direct Dehydrogenation of Propane to Propylene by Microwave Catalysis at Low Temperature over Co–Sn/NC Microwave Catalyst. ChemCatChem 2021, 13, 1009– 1022,  DOI: 10.1002/cctc.202001640 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
10Ma, R.; Yang, T.; Gao, J.; Kou, J.; Chen, J. Z.; He, Y.; Miller, J. T.; Li, D. Composition Tuning of Ru-Based Phosphide for Enhanced Propane Selective Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 10243– 10252,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c01667 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Natarajan, P.; Khan, H. A.; Jaleel, A.; Park, D. S.; Kang, D.-C.; Yoon, S.; Jung, K.-D. The pronounced effect of Sn on RhSn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2020, 392, 8– 20,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2020.09.016 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
12Zhao, Z.-J.; Wu, T.; Xiong, C.; Sun, G.; Mu, R.; Zeng, L.; Gong, J. Hydroxyl-Mediated Non-oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation over VOx/γ-Al2O3 Catalysts with Improved Stability. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 6791– 6795,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201800123 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
13Hu, P.; Lang, W.-Z.; Yan, X.; Chu, L.-F.; Guo, Y.-J. Influence of gelation and calcination temperature on the structure-performance of porous VOX-SiO2 solids in non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2018, 358, 108– 117,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
14Yun, Y.; Araujo, J. R.; Melaet, G.; Baek, J.; Archanjo, B. S.; Oh, M.; Alivisatos, A. P.; Somorjai, G. A. Activation of Tungsten Oxide for Propane Dehydrogenation and Its High Catalytic Activity and Selectivity. Catal. Lett. 2017, 147, 622– 632,  DOI: 10.1007/s10562-016-1915-2 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
15Zheng, B.; Hua, W.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. Dehydrogenation of propane to propene over different polymorphs of gallium oxide. J. Catal. 2005, 232, 143– 151,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2005.03.001 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
16Castro-Fernández, P.; Mance, D.; Liu, C.; Moroz, I. B.; Abdala, P. M.; Pidko, E. A.; Copéret, C.; Fedorov, A.; Müller, C. R. Propane Dehydrogenation on Ga2O3-Based Catalysts: Contrasting Performance with Coordination Environment and Acidity of Surface Sites. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 907– 924,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c05009 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
17Otroshchenko, T.; Sokolov, S.; Stoyanova, M.; Kondratenko, V. A.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Kondratenko, E. V. ZrO2-Based Alternatives to Conventional Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts: Active Sites, Design, and Performance. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 15880– 15883,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201508731 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
18Zhang, Y.; Zhao, Y.; Otroshchenko, T.; Lund, H.; Pohl, M.-M.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Jiao, H.; Jiang, G.; Kondratenko, E. V. Control of coordinatively unsaturated Zr sites in ZrO2 for efficient C–H bond activation. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 3794,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
19Zhang, Y.; Zhao, Y.; Otroshchenko, T.; Han, S.; Lund, H.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Jiao, H.; Jiang, G.; Kondratenko, E. V. The effect of phase composition and crystallite size on activity and selectivity of ZrO2 in non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2019, 371, 313– 324,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
20Bhasin, M. M.; McCain, J. H.; Vora, B. V.; Imai, T.; Pujadó, P. R. Dehydrogenation and oxydehydrogenation of paraffins to olefins. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 221, 397– 419,  DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
21Sattler, J.; Ruiz-Martinez, J.; Santillan-Jimenez, E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides. Chem. Rev. 2014, 114, 10613– 10653,  DOI: 10.1021/cr5002436 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
22Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Zhu, Y.; Zhou, J.; Chen, D. Coke Formation on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 Catalyst in Propane Dehydrogenation: Coke Characterization and Kinetic Study. Top. Catal. 2011, 54, 888– 896,  DOI: 10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
23Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Vining, W. C.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. Novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2011, 282, 165– 174,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
24Xiong, H.; Lin, S.; Goetze, J.; Pletcher, P.; Guo, H.; Kovarik, L.; Artyushkova, K.; Weckhuysen, B. M.; Datye, A. K. Thermally Stable and Regenerable Platinum-Tin Clusters for Propane Dehydrogenation Prepared by Atom Trapping on Ceria. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 8986– 8991,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201701115 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
25Han, Z.; Li, S.; Jiang, F.; Wang, T.; Ma, X.; Gong, J. Propane dehydrogenation over Pt-Cu bimetallic catalysts: the nature of coke deposition and the role of copper. Nanoscale 2014, 6, 10000– 10008,  DOI: 10.1039/C4NR02143F [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
26Chen, S.; Zhao, Z.-J.; Mu, R.; Chang, X.; Luo, J.; Purdy, S. C.; Kropf, A. J.; Sun, G.; Pei, C.; Miller, J. T.; Zhou, X.; Vovk, E.; Yang, Y.; Gong, J. Propane Dehydrogenation on Single-Site [PtZn4] Intermetallic Catalysts. Chem. 2020, 7, 387– 405,  DOI: 10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008 [Crossref], Google Scholar
27Yu, C.; Xu, H.; Ge, Q.; Li, W. Properties of the metallic phase of zinc-doped platinum catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2007, 266, 80– 87,  DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2006.10.025 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Zhu, J.; Yang, M.-L.; Yu, Y.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z.-J.; Zhou, X.-G.; Holmen, A.; Chen, D. Size-Dependent Reaction Mechanism and Kinetics for Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 6310– 6319,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b01423 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Zhang, W.; Wang, H.; Jiang, J.; Sui, Z.; Zhu, Y.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X. Size Dependence of Pt Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation: from Atomically Dispersed to Nanoparticles. ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 12932– 12942,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c03286 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
30Kumar, M. S.; Chen, D.; Walmsley, J. C.; Holmen, A. Dehydrogenation of propane over Pt-SBA-15: Effect of Pt particle size. Catal. Commun. 2008, 9, 747– 750,  DOI: 10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
31Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Zhou, X.-G.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D. First-Principles Calculations of Propane Dehydrogenation over PtSn Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2012, 2, 1247– 1258,  DOI: 10.1021/cs300031d [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
32Nakaya, Y.; Hirayama, J.; Yamazoe, S.; Shimizu, K.-i.; Furukawa, S. Single-atom Pt in intermetallics as an ultrastable and selective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 2838,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-16693-9 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Sun, G.; Zhao, Z.-J.; Mu, R.; Zha, S.; Li, L.; Chen, S.; Zang, K.; Luo, J.; Li, Z.; Purdy, S. C.; Kropf, A. J.; Miller, J. T.; Zeng, L.; Gong, J. Breaking the scaling relationship via thermally stable Pt/Cu single atom alloys for catalytic dehydrogenation. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4454,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-06967-8 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
34Lian, Z.; Ali, S.; Liu, T. F.; Si, C. W.; Li, B.; Su, D. S. Revealing the Janus Character of the Coke Precursor in the Propane Direct Dehydrogenation on Pt Catalysts from a kMC Simulation. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 4694– 4704,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b00107 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
35Chen, S.; Chang, X.; Sun, G.; Zhang, T.; Xu, Y.; Wang, Y.; Pei, C.; Gong, J. Propane dehydrogenation: catalyst development, new chemistry, and emerging technologies. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 3315– 3354,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CS00814A [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
36Li, C.; Wang, G. Dehydrogenation of light alkanes to mono-olefins. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 4359– 4381,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CS00983K [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
37Wang, Y.; Hu, P.; Yang, J.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Chen, D. C–H bond activation in light alkanes: a theoretical perspective. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 4299– 4358,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CS01262A [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
38Bibby, D. M.; Howe, R. F.; McLellan, G. D. Coke Formation In High-Silica Zeolites. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 93, 1– 34,  DOI: 10.1016/0926-860X(92)80291-J [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
39Wang, H.-Z.; Sun, L.-L.; Sui, Z.-J.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Ye, G.-H.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G.; Yuan, W.-K. Coke Formation on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2018, 57, 8647– 8654,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
40Wang, Z.; Chen, Y.; Mao, S.; Wu, K.; Zhang, K.; Li, Q.; Wang, Y. Chemical Insight into the Structure and Formation of Coke on PtSn Alloy during Propane Dehydrogenation. Adv. Sustainable Syst. 2020, 4, 2000092,  DOI: 10.1002/adsu.202000092 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
41Praserthdam, P.; Chaisuk, C.; Kanchanawanichkun, P. Comparative study of coke deposition on catalysts in reactions with and without oxygen. Res. Chem. Intermed. 1998, 24, 605– 612,  DOI: 10.1163/156856798X00122 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
42Redekop, E. A.; Saerens, S.; Galvita, V. V.; Prieto Gonzalez, I.; Sabbe, M.; Bliznuk, V.; Reyniers, M.-F.; Marin, G. B. Early stages in the formation and burning of graphene on a Pt/Mg(Al)O-x dehydrogenation catalyst: A temperature- and time-resolved study. J. Catal. 2016, 344, 482– 495,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2016.10.023 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
43Larsson, M.; Hulten, M.; Blekkan, E. A.; Andersson, B. The effect of reaction conditions and time on stream on the coke formed during propane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 1996, 164, 44– 53,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1996.0361 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
44Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Galvita, V.; Bell, A. T. Catalyst performance of novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 200– 206,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
45Kumar, M. S.; Chen, D.; Holmen, A.; Walmsley, J. C. Dehydrogenation of propane over Pt-SBA-15 and Pt-Sn-SBA-15: Effect of Sn on the dispersion of Pt and catalytic behavior. Catal. Today 2009, 142, 17– 23,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2009.01.002 [Crossref], Google Scholar
46Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Microcalorimetric, Spectroscopic, And Kinetic-Studies Of Silica-Supported Pt And Pt/Sn Catalysts For Isobutane Dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 771– 778,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1994.1263 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
47Hill, J. M.; Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Silica- and L-zeolite-supported Pt, Pt/Sn and Pt/Sn/K catalysts for isobutane dehydrogenation. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 168, 9– 21,  DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(97)00338-4 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
48Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, J.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z.-J.; Yu, Y.-D.; Zhou, X.-G.; Chen, D. Tuning selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation by shaping Pt particles: A combined experimental and DFT study. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2014, 395, 329– 336,  DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2014.08.008 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
49Sattler, J. J. H. B.; Beale, A. M.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Operando Raman spectroscopy study on the deactivation of Pt/Al2O3 and Pt-Sn/Al2O3 propane dehydrogenation catalysts. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 12095– 12103,  DOI: 10.1039/c3cp50646k [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
50Rebo, H. P.; Blekkan, E. A.; Bednarova, L.; Holmen, A. Deactivation of Pt-Sn catalyst in propane dehydrogenation. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1999, 126, 333– 340,  DOI: 10.1016/S0167-2991(99)80483-2 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
51Lobera, M. P.; Tellez, C.; Herguido, J.; Menendez, M. Transient kinetic modelling of propane dehydrogenation over a Pt-Sn-K/Al2O3 catalyst. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 349, 156– 164,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2008.07.025 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
52Voorhies, A., Jr Carbon formation in catalytic cracking. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1945, 37, 318– 322,  DOI: 10.1021/ie50424a010 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
53Froment, G. F. Coke formation in catalytic processes: Kinetics and catalyst deactivation. In Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis; Bartholomew, C. H., Fuentes, G. A., Eds.; Elsevier, 1997; Vol. 111, pp 53– 68.Google Scholar
54Dumez, F. J.; Froment, G. F. Dehydrogenation of 1-butene into butadiene. Kinetics, catalyst coking, and reactor design. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev. 1976, 15, 291– 301,  DOI: 10.1021/i260058a014 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
55Nam, I. S.; Kittrell, J. R. Use of Catalyst Coke Content in Deactivation Modeling. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Des. Dev. 1984, 23, 237– 242,  DOI: 10.1021/i200025a008 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
56Niknaddaf, S.; Soltani, M.; Farjoo, A.; Khorasheh, F. Modeling of Coke Formation and Catalyst Deactivation in Propane Dehydrogenation Over a Commercial Pt-Sn/gamma-Al2O3 Catalyst. Pet. Sci. Technol. 2013, 31, 2451– 2462,  DOI: 10.1080/10916466.2011.565296 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
57Samavati, A.; Fattahi, M.; Khorasheh, F. Modeling of Pt-Sn/gamma-Al2O3 deactivation in propane dehydrogenation with oxygenated additives. Korean J. Chem. Eng. 2013, 30, 55– 61,  DOI: 10.1007/s11814-012-0095-z [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
58van Sint Annaland, M; Kuipers, J.A.M; van Swaaij, W.P.M A kinetic rate expression for the time-dependent coke formation rate during propane dehydrogenation over a platinum alumina monolithic catalyst. Catal. Today 2001, 66, 427– 436,  DOI: 10.1016/S0920-5861(00)00640-4 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
59Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Chen, D. Kinetics of propane dehydrogenation over Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 398, 18– 26,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2011.01.039 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Ye, G.; Wang, H.; Duan, X.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Coppens, M.-O.; Yuan, W. Pore network modeling of catalyst deactivation by coking, from single site to particle, during propane dehydrogenation. AIChE J. 2019, 65, 140– 150,  DOI: 10.1002/aic.16410 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
61Zangeneh, T. F.; Taeb, A.; Gholivand, K.; Sahebdelfar, S. The Effect of Alkali Metal Promoters on the Stability and Coke Formation of Platinum-Based Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts: A Kinetic Study. Iran. J. Chem. Chem. Eng. English Edition 2013, 32, 25– 32Google Scholar
62Hauser, A. W.; Gomes, J.; Bajdich, M.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Subnanometer-sized Pt/Sn alloy cluster catalysts for the dehydrogenation of linear alkanes. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 20727– 20734,  DOI: 10.1039/c3cp53796j [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
63Shan, Y.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. Insights into the effects of steam on propane dehydrogenation over a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 3991– 4000,  DOI: 10.1039/C5CY00230C [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
64Kogan, S. B.; Schramm, H.; Herskowitz, M. Dehydrogenation of propane on modified Pt/theta-alumina Performance in hydrogen and steam environment. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 208, 185– 191,  DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(00)00703-1 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
65Burch, R.; Garla, L. C. Platinum-Tin Reforming Catalysts 0.2. Activity And Selectivity In Hydrocarbon Reactions. J. Catal. 1981, 71, 360– 372,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(81)90239-6 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
66Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. DFT study of propane dehydrogenation on Pt catalyst: effects of step sites. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 3257– 3267,  DOI: 10.1039/c0cp00341g [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
67Xiao, L.; Shan, Y.-L.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G.; Yuan, W.-K.; Zhu, Y.-A. Beyond the Reverse Horiuti–Polanyi Mechanism in Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 14887– 14902,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c03381 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
68Padro, C. L.; de Miguel, S. R.; Castro, A. A.; Scelza, O. A. Stability and regeneration of supported PtSn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1997, 111, 191– 198,  DOI: 10.1016/S0167-2991(97)80155-3 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
69Zhu, Y.; An, Z.; Song, H.; Xiang, X.; Yan, W.; He, J. Lattice-Confined Sn (IV/II) Stabilizing Raft-Like Pt Clusters: High Selectivity and Durability in Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 6973– 6978,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b02264 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
70Sun, C.; Luo, J.; Cao, M.; Zheng, P.; Li, G.; Bu, J.; Cao, Z.; Chen, S.; Xie, X. A comparative study on different regeneration processes of Pt-Sn/gamma-Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. J. Energy Chem. 2018, 27, 311– 318,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jechem.2017.09.035 [Crossref], Google Scholar
71Liu, L.; Lopez-Haro, M.; Lopes, C. W.; Rojas-Buzo, S.; Concepcion, P.; Manzorro, R.; Simonelli, L.; Sattler, A.; Serna, P.; Calvino, J. J.; Corma, A. Structural modulation and direct measurement of subnanometric bimetallic PtSn clusters confined in zeolites. Nat. Catal. 2020, 3, 628– 638,  DOI: 10.1038/s41929-020-0472-7 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
72Jang, E. J.; Lee, J.; Jeong, H. Y.; Kwak, J. H. Controlling the acid-base properties of alumina for stable PtSn-based propane dehydrogenation catalysts. Appl. Catal., A 2019, 572, 1– 8,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2018.12.024 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
73Arteaga, G. J.; Anderson, J. A.; Rochester, C. H. FTIR study of CO adsorption on coked Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts. Catal. Lett. 1999, 58, 189– 194,  DOI: 10.1023/A:1019023210896 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
74Iglesias-Juez, A.; Beale, A. M.; Maaijen, K.; Weng, T. C.; Glatzel, P.; Weckhuysen, B. M. A combined in situ time-resolved UV–Vis, Raman and high-energy resolution X-ray absorption spectroscopy study on the deactivation behavior of Pt and PtSn propane dehydrogenation catalysts under industrial reaction conditions. J. Catal. 2010, 276, 268– 279,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.09.018 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
75Li, B.; Xu, Z.; Jing, F.; Luo, S.; Chu, W. Facile one-pot synthesized ordered mesoporous Mg-SBA-15 supported PtSn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Appl. Catal., A 2017, 533, 17– 27,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2016.12.026 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
76Nykänen, L.; Honkala, K. Density Functional Theory Study on Propane and Propene Adsorption on Pt(111) and PtSn Alloy Surfaces. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 9578– 9586,  DOI: 10.1021/jp1121799 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
77Nykänen, L.; Honkala, K. Selectivity in Propene Dehydrogenation on Pt and Pt3Sn Surfaces from First Principles. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 3026– 3030,  DOI: 10.1021/cs400566y [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
78Hook, A.; Celik, F. E. Predicting Selectivity for Ethane Dehydrogenation and Coke Formation Pathways over Model Pt-M Surface Alloys with ab Initio and Scaling Methods. J. Phys. Chem. C 2017, 121, 17882– 17892,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b03789 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
79Wang, T.; Jiang, F.; Liu, G.; Zeng, L.; Zhao, Z.-j.; Gong, J. Effects of Ga doping on Pt/CeO2-Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. AIChE J. 2016, 62, 4365– 4376,  DOI: 10.1002/aic.15339 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
80Wu, J.; Sharada, S. M.; Ho, C.; Hauser, A. W.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Ethane and propane dehydrogenation over PtIr/Mg(Al)O. Appl. Catal., A 2015, 506, 25– 32,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2015.08.029 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
81Tolek, W.; Suriye, K.; Praserthdam, P.; Panpranot, J. Enhanced Stability and Propene Yield in Propane Dehydrogenation on PtIn/Mg(Al)O Catalysts with Various In Loadings. Top. Catal. 2018, 61, 1624– 1632,  DOI: 10.1007/s11244-018-1008-0 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
82Ryoo, R.; Kim, J.; Jo, C.; Han, S. W.; Kim, J.-C.; Park, H.; Han, J.; Shin, H. S.; Shin, J. W. Rare-earth–platinum alloy nanoparticles in mesoporous zeolite for catalysis. Nature 2020, 585, 221– 224,  DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
83Fan, X.; Li, J.; Zhao, Z.; Wei, Y.; Liu, J.; Duan, A.; Jiang, G. Dehydrogenation of propane over PtSnAl/SBA-15 catalysts: Al addition effect and coke formation analysis. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 339– 350,  DOI: 10.1039/C4CY00951G [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
84Lee, M.-H.; Nagaraja, B. M.; Natarajan, P.; Ngoc Thanh, T.; Lee, K. Y.; Yoon, S.; Jung, K.-D. Effect of potassium addition on bimetallic PtSn/theta-Al2O3 catalyst for dehydrogenation of propane to propylene. Res. Chem. Intermed. 2016, 42, 123– 140,  DOI: 10.1007/s11164-015-2370-1 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
85Bai, L.; Zhou, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, H.; Tang, M. Influence of Calcium Addition on Catalytic Properties of PtSn/ZSM-5 Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. Catal. Lett. 2009, 129, 449– 456,  DOI: 10.1007/s10562-008-9822-9 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
86Zhou, H.; Gong, J.; Xu, B.; Yu, L.; Fan, Y. PtSnNa@SUZ-4-catalyzed propane dehydrogenation. Appl. Catal., A 2016, 527, 30– 35,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2016.08.017 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
87Vu, B. K.; Song, M. B.; Ahn, I. Y.; Suh, Y.-W.; Suh, D. J.; Kim, W.-I.; Koh, H.-L.; Choi, Y. G.; Shin, E. W. Pt-Sn alloy phases and coke mobility over Pt-Sn/Al2O3 and Pt-Sn/ZnAl2O4 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 400, 25– 33,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2011.03.057 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
88Yu, C. L.; Ge, Q. J.; Xu, H. Y.; Li, W. Z. Effects of Ce addition on the Pt-Sn/gamma-Al2O3 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 315, 58– 67,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2006.08.038 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
89Jiang, F.; Zeng, L.; Li, S.; Liu, G.; Wang, S.; Gong, J. Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt/TiO2-Al2O3 Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 438– 447,  DOI: 10.1021/cs501279v [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
90Wang, P.; Xu, Z.; Wang, T.; Yue, Y.; Bao, X.; Zhu, H. Unmodified bulk alumina as an efficient catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2020, 10, 3537– 3541,  DOI: 10.1039/D0CY00779J [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
91Yue, Y.; Fu, J.; Wang, C.; Yuan, P.; Bao, X.; Xie, Z.; Basset, J.-M.; Zhu, H. Propane dehydrogenation catalyzed by single Lewis acid site in Sn-Beta zeolite. J. Catal. 2021, 395, 155– 167,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
92Schreiber, M. W.; Plaisance, C. P.; Baumgärtl, M.; Reuter, K.; Jentys, A.; Bermejo-Deval, R.; Lercher, J. A. Lewis–Brønsted Acid Pairs in Ga/H-ZSM-5 To Catalyze Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 4849– 4859,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.7b12901 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
93Argyle, M. D.; Bartholomew, C. H. Heterogeneous Catalyst Deactivation and Regeneration: A Review. Catalysts 2015, 5, 145– 269,  DOI: 10.3390/catal5010145 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
94Sricharoen, C.; Jongsomjit, B.; Panpranot, J.; Praserthdam, P. The key to catalytic stability on sol–gel derived SnOx/SiO2 catalyst and the comparative study of side reaction with K-PtSn/Al2O3 toward propane dehydrogenation. Catal. Today 2021, 375, 343,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.2020.05.053 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
95Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Shi, J.; Zhou, S.; Sheng, X.; Zhang, Z.; Xiang, S. Comparative study of bimetallic Pt-Sn catalysts supported on different supports for propane dehydrogenation. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2014, 381, 138– 147,  DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2013.10.007 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
96Zhou, S.; Zhou, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Sheng, X.; Zhang, Z. The synthesis of new coke-resistant support and its application in propane dehydrogenation to propene. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 2016, 91, 1072– 1081,  DOI: 10.1002/jctb.4686 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
97Kumar, M. S.; Holmen, A.; Chen, D. The influence of pore geometry of Pt containing ZSM-5, Beta and SBA-15 catalysts on dehydrogenation of propane. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2009, 126, 152– 158,  DOI: 10.1016/j.micromeso.2009.05.031 [Crossref], Google Scholar
98Zhao, Z.-J.; Chiu, C.-c.; Gong, J. Molecular understandings on the activation of light hydrocarbons over heterogeneous catalysts. Chem. Sci. 2015, 6, 4403– 4425,  DOI: 10.1039/C5SC01227A [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
99Sun, X.; Han, P.; Li, B.; Zhao, Z. Tunable Catalytic Performance of Single Pt Atom on Doped Graphene in Direct Dehydrogenation of Propane by Rational Doping: A Density Functional Theory Study. J. Phys. Chem. C 2018, 122, 1570– 1576,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b09736 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
100Sun, Q.; Wang, N.; Fan, Q.; Zeng, L.; Mayoral, A.; Miao, S.; Yang, R.; Jiang, Z.; Zhou, W.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, T.; Xu, J.; Zhang, P.; Cheng, J.; Yang, D.-C.; Jia, R.; Li, L.; Zhang, Q.; Wang, Y.; Terasaki, O.; Yu, J. Subnanometer Bimetallic Platinum–Zinc Clusters in Zeolites for Propane Dehydrogenation. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 19450– 19459,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.202003349 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
101Bao Khanh, V.; Song, M. B.; Ahn, I. Y.; Suh, Y.-W.; Suh, D. J.; Kim, J. S.; Shin, E. W. Location and structure of coke generated over Pt-Sn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2011, 17, 71– 76,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jiec.2010.10.011 [Crossref], Google Scholar
102Vu, B. K.; Shin, E. W. Influence of Oxygen Mobility over Supported Pt Catalysts on Combustion Temperature of Coke Generated in Propane Dehydrogenation. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 699– 704,  DOI: 10.1007/s10562-010-0527-5 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
103Vu, B. K.; Bok, S. M.; Ahn, I. Y.; Shin, E. W. Oxidation of Coke Formed Over Pt-Al2O3 and Pt-SBA-15 in Propane Dehydrogenation. Catal. Lett. 2009, 133, 376– 381,  DOI: 10.1007/s10562-009-0196-4 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
104Kim, G. H.; Jung, K.-D.; Kim, W.-I.; Um, B.-H.; Shin, C.-H.; Oh, K.; Koh, H. L. Effect of oxychlorination treatment on the regeneration of Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Res. Chem. Intermed. 2016, 42, 351– 365,  DOI: 10.1007/s11164-015-2300-2 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
105Liu, J.-C.; Xiao, H.; Li, J. Constructing High-Loading Single-Atom/Cluster Catalysts via an Electrochemical Potential Window Strategy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 3375– 3383,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b06808 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
106Li, X.; Rong, H.; Zhang, J.; Wang, D.; Li, Y. Modulating the local coordination environment of single-atom catalysts for enhanced catalytic performance. Nano Res. 2020, 13, 1842– 1855,  DOI: 10.1007/s12274-020-2755-3 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
107Zhang, J.; Zheng, C.; Zhang, M.; Qiu, Y.; Xu, Q.; Cheong, W.-C.; Chen, W.; Zheng, L.; Gu, L.; Hu, Z.; Wang, D.; Li, Y. Controlling N-doping type in carbon to boost single-atom site Cu catalyzed transfer hydrogenation of quinoline. Nano Res. 2020, 13, 3082– 3087,  DOI: 10.1007/s12274-020-2977-4 [Crossref], Google Scholar
108Zhang, J.; Wang, H.; Wang, L.; Ali, S.; Wang, C.; Wang, L.; Meng, X.; Li, B.; Su, D. S.; Xiao, F.-S. Wet-Chemistry Strong Metal–Support Interactions in Titania-Supported Au Catalysts. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 2975– 2983,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.8b10864 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
109Guo, Y.; Mei, S.; Yuan, K.; Wang, D.-J.; Liu, H.-C.; Yan, C.-H.; Zhang, Y.-W. Low-Temperature CO2 Methanation over CeO2-Supported Ru Single Atoms, Nanoclusters, and Nanoparticles Competitively Tuned by Strong Metal–Support Interactions and H-Spillover Effect. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 6203– 6215,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b04469 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
110Kong, X.; Zhuang, J.; Zhu, L.; Ding, F. The complementary graphene growth and etching revealed by large-scale kinetic Monte Carlo simulation. npj Comput. Mater. 2021, 7, 14,  DOI: 10.1038/s41524-020-00489-y [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
111Jiang, H.; Hou, Z. Large-scale epitaxial growth kinetics of graphene: A kinetic Monte Carlo study. J. Chem. Phys. 2015, 143, 084109,  DOI: 10.1063/1.4929471 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
112Qiu, Z.; Li, P.; Li, Z.; Yang, J. Atomistic Simulations of Graphene Growth: From Kinetics to Mechanism. Acc. Chem. Res. 2018, 51, 728– 735,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.7b00592 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
113Meng, L.; Sun, Q.; Wang, J.; Ding, F. Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Chemical Vapor Deposition Graphene Growth on Ni (111) Surface. J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 6097– 6102,  DOI: 10.1021/jp212149c [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
114Xu, Z.; Zhao, G.; Qiu, L.; Zhang, X.; Qiao, G.; Ding, F. Molecular dynamics simulation of graphene sinking during chemical vapor deposition growth on semi-molten Cu substrate. npj Comput. Mater. 2020, 6, 14,  DOI: 10.1038/s41524-020-0281-1 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
115Zhang, W.; van Duin, A. C. T. Atomistic-Scale Simulations of the Graphene Growth on a Silicon Carbide Substrate Using Thermal Decomposition and Chemical Vapor Deposition. Chem. Mater. 2020, 32, 8306– 8317,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c02121 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
3
Mentioning
42
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 38 publications.
Yuki Nakaya, Shinya Furukawa. Catalysis of Alloys: Classification, Principles, and Design for a Variety of Materials and Reactions. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (9) , 5859-5947. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00356
Yiyi Xu, Sai Chen, Xin Chang, Xianhui Wang, Guodong Sun, Zhenpu Lu, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Chunlei Pei, Jinlong Gong. Ultrathin TiOx Nanosheets Rich in Tetracoordinated Ti Sites for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (9) , 6104-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00818
Ming-Lei Sun, Zhong-Pan Hu, Hao-Yu Wang, Yu-Jun Suo, Zhong-Yong Yuan. Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4719-4741. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00103
Patricia Poths, Harry W. T. Morgan, Guangjing Li, Autumn Fuchs, Scott L. Anderson, Anastassia N. Alexandrova. Promoter–Poison Partnership Protects Platinum Performance in Coked Cluster Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (11) , 5376-5384. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c00156
Hao Liu, Jie Zhou, Tianxiang Chen, Peng Hu, Chao Xiong, Qingdi Sun, Shenwei Chen, Tsz Woon Benedict Lo, Hongbing Ji. Isolated Pt Species Anchored by Hierarchical-like Heteroatomic Fe-Silicalite-1 Catalyze Propane Dehydrogenation near the Thermodynamic Limit. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (5) , 2928-2936. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05042
Lulu Ping, Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Unraveling the Surface State Evolution of IrO2 in Ethane Chemical Looping Oxidative Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (2) , 1381-1399. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05770
Michael A. Denchy, Linjie Wang, Benjamin R. Bilik, Lucas Hansen, Sandra Albornoz, Francisco Lizano, Nicolas Blando, Zachary Hicks, Gerd Gantefoer, Kit H. Bowen. Ultrasmall Cluster Model for Investigating Single Atom Catalysis: Dehydrogenation of 1-Propanamine by Size-Selected Pt1Zr2O7 Clusters Supported on HOPG. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2022, 126 (42) , 7578-7590. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.2c03149
Rui Ma, Junxian Gao, Jiajing Kou, David P. Dean, Christian J. Breckner, Kaijun Liang, Bo Zhou, Jeffrey T. Miller, Guojun Zou. Insights into the Nature of Selective Nickel Sites on Ni/Al2O3 Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12607-12616. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03240
Liang Qi, Yanfei Zhang, Melike Babucci, Cailing Chen, Peng Lu, Jingwei Li, Chaochao Dun, Adam S. Hoffman, Jeffrey J. Urban, Michael Tsapatsis, Simon R. Bare, Yu Han, Bruce C. Gates, Alexis T. Bell. Dehydrogenation of Propane and n-Butane Catalyzed by Isolated PtZn4 Sites Supported on Self-Pillared Zeolite Pentasil Nanosheets. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (18) , 11177-11189. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01631
Guang-Di Wang, Jia-Wei Jiang, Zhi-Jun Sui, Yi-An Zhu, Xing-Gui Zhou. Kinetic Promotion Effect of Hydrogen and Dimethyl Disulfide Addition on Propane Dehydrogenation over the Pt–Sn–K/Al2O3 Catalyst. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (35) , 30773-30781. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c01729
Xianxian Shi, Si Chen, Shang Li, Yuqi Yang, Qiaoqiao Guan, Jiani Ding, Xinyu Liu, Qin Liu, Wenlong Xu, Junling Lu. Particle size effect of SiO 2 -supported ZnO catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. Catalysis Science & Technology 2023, 13 (6) , 1866-1873. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY02131E
Xin‐Qian Gao, Zi‐Hao Yao, Wen‐Cui Li, Gao‐Ming Deng, Lei He, Rui Si, Jian‐Guo Wang, An‐Hui Lu. Calcium‐Modified PtSn/Al 2 O 3 Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation with High Activity and Stability. ChemCatChem 2023, 114 https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202201691
Faheem Jan, Min Yang, Nuodan Zhou, XiaoYing Sun, Bo Li. Engineering the catalytic properties of CeO2 catalyst in HCl-assisted propane dehydrogenation by effective doping: A first-principles-based microkinetic simulation. Frontiers in Chemistry 2023, 11 https://doi.org/10.3389/fchem.2023.1133865
Ryan Alcala, David P. Dean, Isha Chavan, Che-Wei Chang, Brandon Burnside, Hien N. Pham, Eric Peterson, Jeffrey T. Miller, Abhaya K. Datye. Strategies for Regeneration of Pt-alloy Catalysts Supported on Silica for Propane Dehydrogenation. Applied Catalysis A: General 2023, 74 , 119157. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2023.119157
Minghui Li, Yaning Yang, Dailiang Yu, Wenwen Li, Xin Ning, Rui Wan, Hongjie Zhu, Junjie Mao. Recent advances on the construction of encapsulated catalyst for catalytic applications. Nano Research 2023, 16 (2) , 3451-3474. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4859-4
Zhinian Cheng, Yang Wang, Daokuan Jin, Jianxin Liu, Wenghang Wang, Yongqiang Gu, Wanxin Ni, Zhaoxuan Feng, Mingbo Wu. Petroleum pitch-derived porous carbon as a metal-free catalyst for direct propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Catalysis Today 2023, 410 , 164-174. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2022.06.022
Weiliao Liu, Zhaobin Jiang, Jiansong Pei, Xinlian Xu, Xiaolong Liu, Zhen Tian, Youwei Cheng, Xi Li, Lijun Wang. Deactivation kinetic study on vapor phase Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime and design of the multi-layer inclined channel bionic reactor. Chemical Engineering Research and Design 2023, 190 , 476-488. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2022.12.031
Huiru Yang, Xiangze Du, Linyuan Zhou, Dan Li, Changwei Hu. Enhanced deoxygenation performance and coke resistance of Ni-based catalysts for jatropha oil conversion by rare earth elements. Fuel 2023, 334 , 126779. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2022.126779
Fushan Feng, Haiyuan Zhang, Shaoqi Chu, Qinqin Zhang, Chao Wang, Guangjian Wang, Fang Wang, Liancheng Bing, Dezhi Han. Recent progress on the traditional and emerging catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry 2023, 118 , 1-18. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2022.11.001
Sheng Wei, Hua Dai, Jiangping Long, Hongqiao Lin, Junkun Gu, Xupeng Zong, Dan Yang, Yu Tang, Yanhui Yang, Yihu Dai. Nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation by isolated Co2+ in BEA zeolite: Dealumination-determined key steps of propane C H activation and propylene desorption. Chemical Engineering Journal 2023, 455 , 140726. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726
Hao Liu, Yao Liu, Xingcong Zhang, Peng Hu, Jie Zhou, Hao Wang, Jialang Hu, Shenwei Chen, Hongbing Ji. Effect of different properties of silicon-based support on propane dehydrogenation performance of PtZn bimetallic catalyst. Fuel 2023, 332 , 125858. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2022.125858
Chuntao Shao, Yao Cui, Li Zhang, Jie Tang, Chunliang Ge, Biao Chen, Li Wang, Yanglong Guo, Wangcheng Zhan, Yun Guo. Boosting propane purification on Pt/ZrOSO4 nanoflowers: Insight into the roles of different sulfate species in synergy with Pt. Separation and Purification Technology 2023, 304 , 122367. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2022.122367
Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Ethane dehydrogenation over the g-C3N4 supported metal single-atom catalysts to enhance reactivity and coking-resistance ability. Nano Research 2022, 5 https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-5187-4
H. Wang, Y. Liu, H. Wang, J. Song, D. Ma, Z. Dai. An all-in-one zeolite@Ru–Al2O3 nanoplatform toward highly efficient, anti-coking, and recyclable hydrocarbon cracking catalysis. Materials Today Nano 2022, 20 , 100244. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtnano.2022.100244
Rui Zhang, Qing-Yu Chang, Fang Ma, Muhammad Zeeshan, Ming-Lei Yang, Zhi-Jun Sui, De Chen, Xing-Gui Zhou, Yi-An Zhu. Enhanced catalytic performance of transition metal-doped Cr2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation: A microkinetic modeling study. Chemical Engineering Journal 2022, 446 , 136913. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.136913
Jian Wang, Junyu Tao, Xiaoshan Dong, Zibiao Liu, Donghao Hou, Yongjie Hu, Beibei Yan, Hong Su, Guanyi Chen. Hydrothermal oxygen uncoupling of high-concentration biogas slurry over Cu-α-Fe2O3·α-MoO3 catalyst. Journal of Environmental Management 2022, 320 , 115827. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvman.2022.115827
Jack Samuel Jarvis, Zhaofei Li, Shijun Meng, Hua Song. Methane assisted catalyst synthesis and catalytic conversion of oleic acid. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2022, 10 (36) , 18671-18678. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA04568K
Evgeniy A. Redekop, Hilde Poelman, Matthias Filez, Ranjith K. Ramachandran, Jolien Dendooven, Christophe Detavernier, Guy B. Marin, Unni Olsbye, Vladimir V. Galvita. Aligning time-resolved kinetics (TAP) and surface spectroscopy (AP-XPS) for a more comprehensive understanding of ALD-derived 2D and 3D model catalysts. Faraday Discussions 2022, 236 , 485-509. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1FD00120E
Jiajia Shi, Yao Wei, Leilei Zhang, Dan Zhou, Zhounan Yu, Shengxin Zhang, Xiaofeng Yang, Ji Yang, Yang Su, Zheng Jiang, Aiqin Wang. Potassium-promoted single-atom Co-N-C catalyst for direct dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene. Nano Research 2022, 114 https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4828-y
Xin-Qian Gao, Wen-Cui Li, Bin Qiu, Jian Sheng, Fan Wu, An-Hui Lu. Promotion effect of sulfur impurity in alumina support on propane dehydrogenation. Journal of Energy Chemistry 2022, 70 , 332-339. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.02.048
Ziqiang Qu, Qiming Sun. Advances in zeolite-supported metal catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers 2022, 9 (13) , 3095-3115. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI00653G
Yitao Dai, Yujie Xiong. Control of selectivity in organic synthesis via heterogeneous photocatalysis under visible light. Nano Research Energy 2022, 1 , e9120006. https://doi.org/10.26599/NRE.2022.9120006
Chuanye Xiong, Sheng Dai, Zili Wu, De‐en Jiang. Single Atoms Anchored in Hexagonal Boron Nitride for Propane Dehydrogenation from First Principles. ChemCatChem 2022, 14 (9) https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202200133
Tianyu Cao, WooJae Lee, Renjing Huang, Raymond J. Gorte, John M. Vohs. Liquid-Organic hydrogen carriers as endothermic fuels. Fuel 2022, 313 , 123063. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2021.123063
Yaoxin Wang, Jiandian Wang, Ping Zheng, Changyong Sun, Junyin Luo, Xiaowei Xie. Boosting selectivity and stability on Pt/BN catalysts for propane dehydrogenation via calcination & reduction-mediated strong metal-support interaction. Journal of Energy Chemistry 2022, 67 , 451-457. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.10.008
Xinzhang Lin, Junying Zhang, Jie Tang, Yang Yang, Chao Liu, Jiahui Huang. Atomically precise structures of Pt 2 (S-Adam) 4 (PPh 3 ) 2 complexes and catalytic application in propane dehydrogenation. Nanoscale 2022, 14 (6) , 2482-2489. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1NR07286B
Jan P. Walter, Andreas Brune, Andreas Seidel-Morgenstern, Christof Hamel. Process Intensification of the Propane Dehydrogenation Considering Coke Formation, Catalyst Deactivation and Regeneration—Transient Modelling and Analysis of a Heat-Integrated Membrane Reactor. Catalysts 2021, 11 (9) , 1056. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal11091056
Marco Martino, Eugenio Meloni, Giovanni Festa, Vincenzo Palma. Propylene Synthesis: Recent Advances in the Use of Pt-Based Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation Reaction. Catalysts 2021, 11 (9) , 1070. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal11091070
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Network of surface reactions of PDH. The black solid arrows represent the elementary reaction of C–H bond breaking and the red dashed arrows represent the elementary reaction of C–C bond breaking. All elementary reactions are reversible. Adapted from ref (34).
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Two types of coke identified by TPO; S1–S3 represent different ratios of propane, propylene and hydrogen in feed gas. (22) (b) Three types of coke identified by TPO. (43) (c) Amount of different types of coke over time on Pt and Pt–Sn catalysts. (43)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Amount of coke over time for different temperatures from experimental data and monolayer–multilayer coke growth model prediction. (51)
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Relationship between rates of different coke formation and partial pressures of H2. S1–S5 and S7 are experiments under different feed compositions, black for coke on the metal and red for coke on the support. (22) (b) The relationship between TOF of propane and propylene and partial pressures of H2O. (63)
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Effect of Pt catalyst size. (28) (b) Amount of cokes on the Pt-based catalysts with different promoter and support. (79) (c) Time evolution of coke deposition of supported Pt catalysts with support doping. (44)
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) AC-HAADF-STEM images of Pt and PtSn catalysts and corresponding catalytic performance and stability. (26) (b) Schematic illustration of confined PtSn cluster in zeolite and related catalytic performance. (71)
Figure 7
Figure 7. Coke combustion temperature in different Sn content: (a) 0% Sn, (b) 0.29% Sn, (c) 0.53% Sn, and (d) 1.67% Sn. (101)

</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
