I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Stable platinum in a zeolite channel


Highly stable and active PtSn sub-nanometre clusters are located in sinusoidal zeolite channels, leading to improved and more stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts.
Metal nanoparticles are crucial in many applications, such as catalysis, and their performance not only depends on their chemical composition, size and particular shape, but also on their specific position in a porous host1. Porous oxides, such as silica, titania and alumina, are often used in chemical industries to stabilize metal nanoparticles. However, the high-temperature conditions of many catalytic applications often lead to the clustering of metal nanoparticles into large agglomerates with decreased performance2. Zeolites, which are porous oxides with cages or channels of (sub-)nanometre dimensions, may offer a practical solution to prevent metal sintering by selectively hosting metal particles of sub-nanometre dimensions within one specific zeolite cage or channel3. This is exactly what a group of researchers, led by Avelino Corma, were able to do. They report in this issue of Nature Materials4 on an innovative synthesis method to regioselectively place Pt and PtSn nanoparticles within the industrially important zeolite ZSM-5. By predominantly placing the Pt or PtSn sub-nanometre clusters within the sinusoidal channels of this zeolite a catalyst material is obtained that is highly active and stable in selective hydrocarbon conversion processes. It is anticipated that this synthesis approach is more generally applicable.
Corma and colleagues have focused on the zeolite framework topology MFI, and more specifically on the silicon-only variant of zeolite ZSM-5, namely silicalite. This material, as illustrated in Fig. 1, is built up from pentasil units, leading to the formation of two interconnecting ten-membered (10MR) channels of 0.5 nm diameter. This structure leads to three potential positions for the regioselective hosting of metal nanoparticles: straight pores, sinusoidal pores and the pore intersections3. The authors have used this zeolite system to selectively position Pt and PtSn nanoclusters of 0.5 nm in the sinusoidal pores, and demonstrate that locating the clusters there positively affect the reactivity and stability of the catalyst for the selective dehydrogenation of propane into propene. This was made possible by using a well-chosen organic structure-directing agent (OSDA), namely tetrapropylammonium (TPA+), in combination with K+ as an additive. Both synthesis ingredients turn out to be essential as K+ selectively interacts with the zeolite silanol groups, while TPA+ selectively blocks the larger intersection pores so that the Pt nanoparticles ultimately will opt to anchor in the next largest pore environment, which is the sinusoidal pore. The resulting catalyst offers the advantage of high selectivity and stability over the more classical and industrially used PtSn/Al2O3-based propane dehydrogenation catalysts, which are known to suffer from PtPt clustering and Sn and Pt redistribution over the alumina support during regeneration treatments5.
Fig. 1: Structure of the MFI zeolite framework.
The framework is built up of secondary building units (pentasil units) that are made up of the primary building block TO4, and includes three different possible locations for the sub-nanometre Pt clusters  intersections, sinusoidal channels or straight channels. During zeolite synthesis the OSDA could be selectively placed in the channel intersection (blue ball), leaving only two possible positions for the Pt metal particles (red balls). It was found that the Pt metal particles mainly form within the sinusoidal channels of the zeolite framework structure.
Full size image
Next to this innovative synthesis approach, the authors use a very powerful characterization approach to identify with high precision the location of the Pt nanoparticles within the different pore geometries of the zeolite MFI material. Besides X-ray absorption spectroscopy (specifically, extended X-ray adsorption fine structure, which is a bulk characterization method providing average information on, for example, the Pt nanoparticle size), they also use a combination of two local chemical imaging methods. These are high-resolution, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HR HAADF-STEM) and integrated differential phase contrast (iDPC). In the HR HAADF-STEM images (Fig. 2a,c), sub-nanometric Pt clusters are observed. In the corresponding iDPC images (Fig. 2b,d), the pore structures and geometries of zeolite MFI are revealed. By combining the images obtained by these two imaging modes, it is possible to identify the precise locations of the Pt nanoparticles in zeolite MFI, which correspond to the sinusoidal channels. This detailed characterization study represents a materials characterization challenge in its own right; although the question remains how generally applicable will this be for aluminium-containing zeolite materials, and what electron beam damage could occur for other zeolite-based materials.
Fig. 2: Identification of the location of sub-nanometric Pt clusters within the zeolite MFI structure.
a,b, Large-area and detailed HR HAADF-STEM image (a) and the corresponding iDPC image (b) of a K-PtSn@MFI catalyst in the [010] orientation. c,d, Images of the same material in the tilted-[010] orientation. Figure reproduced from ref. 4, Springer Nature Ltd.
Full size image
The concept of regioselective metal nanoparticle trapping within zeolites, as developed in this work, has a lot of potential provided it can be applied to other zeolite framework structures. A zeolite material with a similar, yet distinct framework structure is MEL, which also contains two 10MR channels. The two types of 10MR channels of MEL are both straight, leading to two distinct intersections, one being large and another being small. It would be very interesting to explore if, by playing with the interfacial chemistry between the OSDA and the zeolite framework, we can selectively place sub-nanometric metal particles in one intersection space, but not in the other intersection space. If this indeed can be done for MEL, we are not limited to other 10MR zeolite frameworks, such as MWW, and can extend the approach to 8MR and 12MR zeolite frameworks, such as CHA or AFI. Interestingly, certain OSDAs, such as tetraethyl ammonium (TEA+), are very versatile in steering the synthesis. For example, TEA+ can either form an 8MR (CHA) or 12 MR zeolite framework (AFI) from the same synthesis gel6. One could then imagine that it should become feasible to selectively trap sub-nanometric metal particles in one zeolite cage or channel (for example, 8MR) and at the same time keep another zeolite cage or channel (for example, 12MR) completely free so that reactants and reaction products can freely move forward and backward to the catalytically active metal nanoparticle. If such concepts work, we would be entering a new era in the rational design of zeolite-based catalysts. The work of Corma and co-workers illustrates with the MFI showcase that such an approach should become feasible in the years to come.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 