I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


What Is the True Cost of Producing Propylene from Methanol? The Role of Externalities
Abstract
The demand for olefins has increased steadily in recent years, with a propylene demand around 100 million tons per year and an expected annual growth of 34%. Most propylene is presently produced via steam cracking of naphtha, but on-purpose processes based on selective propane dehydrogenation or utilizing methanol as an intermediate are also being investigated and deployed. The coal-to-propylene route in particular has gained wide interest in China. This paper presents an assessment of such emerging propylene production routes from methanol by combining detailed process simulation with life-cycle assessment and monetization of the environmental impacts. Though presenting a competitive direct production cost, the coal-to-propylene route has by far the highest total monetized cost after accounting for the human health and ecosystem quality externalities. As for the natural-gas-to-propylene route, it has about double the total monetized cost of conventional steam cracking of naphtha or propane dehydrogenation because of high human health and resource depletion externalities. These results provide a clear indication that both the coal-to-propylene and natural-gas-to-propylene routes are unsustainable. They also highlight the importance of accounting for negative externalities in assessing the techno-economic performance of industrial processes as it can radically change the outcome of the analysis.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:process design process modeling monetary valuation life-cycle assessment propylene methanol-to-olefins process
Synopsis
Sustainability assessment for propylene production pathways via externalities and production cost.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Olefins are one of the key building blocks of modern society, with a multitude of daily-use products coming from its transformation. (1,2) Among them, propylene is the second most-produced petrochemical with a current global production of around 100 million tons (Mt) per annum and expected to increase due to population growth and rising living standards. (35) Propylene is a major chemical platform for industry due to the plethora of derived chemicals. Polypropylene is the largest derivative, accounting for around 60% of the total propylene production. Other derived products include propylene oxide, chemical specialties such as acrylonitrile, epoxies, phenol-formaldehyde resins, oxo-alcohols, and high added-value products such as acrylic acid and cumene. (4,6) Propylene is primarily obtained as a co-product from the steam cracking of hydrocarbons, where its yield is highly dependent on the feedstock employed. Ethane crackers produce very low yields of propylene, but these yields increase when heavier oil fractions (e.g., propane, butane, and naphtha) are used as feedstock. (1,4,7) Since 2008, the availability of low-cost ethane from shale gas has favored the use of pure steam crackers, and therefore, ethylene production has increased at a significantly faster rate than propylene production. (46) Nevertheless, the global propylene demand is expected to keep rising at an annual rate between 3 and 4% over the following decade. (8) On top of this, the propylene demand over the past 20 years has been between 12 and 14% higher than the production capacity with conventional production methods. (4) This has prompted the petrochemical industry to look into alternative feedstock and on-purpose propylene production routes to cover this unmet demand.
Alternative routes to propylene production include fluid catalytic cracking (FCC), (4,911) isobutyl alcohol-to-propylene, (12,13) hydrogenation of acetic acid, (14) olefins metathesis, (15,16) propane dehydrogenation (PDH), (17) and methanol-to-propylene (MTP). (1820) Of all the on-purpose processes, both PDH and MTP have grown significantly in recent years. The former is especially attractive in regions where liquid petroleum gas (LPG) may be sourced at a low cost, as is the case with shale gas in the United States. (8) The second offers the possibility to replace crude oil with coal or natural gas via the production of methanol and is the main focus of this paper.
Following the introduction of the methanol-to-olefins (MTO) process by Lurgi in Germany during the late 1990s, (6) several projects have been launched, notably in China where MTO could add a significant value to the extensive coal reserves of the country. Coal-to-chemicals, and in particular coal-to-methanol, is strategic due to the advantages of methanol both as a final product and an intermediate for several high added-value chemicals. Chinas coal-based methanol production reached 46 Mt in 2015 with a market share of 35% for MTO, expected to increase to over 50% by 2020. (21) This is reflected in the growing number of MTO projects in China where 15 commercial plants were already in operation in 2016 with an installed capacity of 7.2 Mt. (21) However, this contrasts with Chinas recent plan to limit CO2 emissions by reducing the national energy consumption to 5 billion tons (Bt) of standard coal equivalent while simultaneously reducing coal consumption to 4.1 Bt, which should make the approval of new coal-to-chemicals facilities less likely in the future. (22) Given the controversy and contrary positions regarding greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the stakes of coal-based olefins production, it is of paramount importance to quantify the sustainability level, in terms of economic, environmental and social performance, of emerging, on-purpose propylene production processes such as MTP and compare them with the conventional propylene production route and alternative on-purpose production routes such as propane dehydrogenation.
Computer-aided process engineering tools are a great help to quantify multiple key performance indicators of chemical processes during their design phase. (2327) In terms of environmental performance, life-cycle assessment (LCA) has emerged as the preferred approach due to its holistic, cradle-to-grave scope covering every stage from the extraction and processing of raw materials to the storage, distribution, and final disposal of intermediates and products. (2831) However, the inherent uncertainty in any LCA method can introduce variability in the predicted impacts and complicate result interpretation. (3234) Understanding and accounting for this uncertainty is highly relevant when assessing chemical process designs. Burden-shifting, namely, improving one environmental impact at the detriment of other impacts, can also make LCA results hard to interpret due to the lack of agreed methods to explore trade-offs between impact categories.
A growing body of research has applied computer-aided tools to analyze the production of propylene and other olefins from methanol. Onel et al. (5) presented a comprehensive superstructure-based optimization for the production of C2 to C4 olefins from natural gas via a methanol intermediate. They included multiple natural gas and methanol conversion pathways with simultaneous heat, power, and water integration and considered GHG life-cycle emissions. They concluded that the optimal topology should include the MTO technology due to its better selectivity toward high-value olefins. Similarly, Jasper and El-Halwagi (35) compared the MTO and MTP processes in terms of techno-economic performance and direct CO2 emissions. They considered two scenarios whereby methanol is either purchased or produced from natural gas. They predicted that both processes would be infeasible if methanol were to be purchased at a price above US$600 per ton. However, when producing methanol from natural gas internally, both designs were predicted to be feasible over a wide range of natural gas prices. In another study, Xiang et al. (7) conducted a techno-economic analysis of the coal-to-olefins (CTO) process in China and compared it with the oil-to-olefins (OTO) process. They found that the CTO process is economically superior but suffers from a low energy efficiency and high CO2 direct emissions.
Focusing on the environmental footprint, Gao et al. (36) performed an LCA of the CTO process using data collected from commercial projects in China. Their analysis aimed to define targets for reducing energy and water consumption and GHG emissions. They found the CTO process to be highly water- and energy-intensive while also presenting significant CO2, SO2, and NOx emissions. Xiang et al. (37) used LCA principles to analyze the energy consumption and GHG emissions associated with the MTO process using natural gas and coal as feedstock and compared them to the OTO process. Their results showed that the energy consumption and GHG emissions of the natural-gas-to-olefins (NGTO) process are comparable to those of the OTO process, while the CTO process presents higher energy consumption and significant GHG emissions.
Other studies have a more specific focus on the reaction step of the MTO process. Huang et al. (38) proposed to reduce the recycling of olefins back to the reactor and to add an extra olefins cracking reactor as a strategy for improving the yield of light olefins. Jiang et al. (39) simulated the MTP process in a two-stage moving bed reactor and concluded that the recycling of water and byproducts to the first stage can increase the propylene yield by up to 70%. A large body of research is also concerned with the development of new catalysts for improving the yield and selectivity of the MTO process. (2,4045)
A majority of the studies dealing with the conversion of methanol to olefins have focused on either the techno-economics or the environmental impacts of the MTO process, but research considering both dimensions concurrently has so far remained scarce. Furthermore, several studies have included the environmental burdens at the production stage only, neglecting the impacts embodied in the process and product life cycles. Overlooking the inherent trade-offs between sustainability indicators could result in an incomplete assessment and end up being misleading for decision-making.
This paper conducts a systematic assessment of the MTP process based on the synergistic use of process modeling tools, techno-economic assessment, and LCA principles. We benchmark the MTP process employing either natural gas or coal as feedstock for the methanol with both propane dehydrogenation and steam cracking of naphtha, representing the business-as-usual production route, in the Chinese context. To this end, we apply monetary valuation to translate the environmental indicators in a common monetary basis. (4650) This enables adding up externalities to the conventional production cost, thereby leading to a single economic score for representing the total cost of the MTP process and simplifying the comparison between technologies.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We start by describing the processes considered in the assessment followed by the methodology. Then, we analyze and discuss the results of the assessment before concluding.
Materials and Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Figure 1 summarizes the methodology used to estimate the economic and environmental performance and the total cost of propylene production from methanol. A full description of this methodology is provided in section A of the Supporting Information. Process simulation and energy integration are performed in Aspen HYSYS followed by the economic assessment based on raw materials and utilities consumption (OPEX) and equipment sizing (CAPEX), including the heat exchanger network (HEN) design. The environmental assessment is conducted alongside the economic assessment: inventory flows from the process simulation (the foreground system) feed into the LCA calculations in SimaPro, which interfaces with the ecoinvent database (the background system). These calculations include an uncertainty analysis with respect to the environmental data. The endpoint impact indicators from the LCA are monetized and added to the costs from the economic assessment to arrive at the total cost for each alternative, including externalities expressed as a single monetary value score. China is chosen as the geographical location for the assessment, and accordingly, the background data corresponding to the Chinese context is used where relevant.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Methodology combining techno-economic and environmental assessment with monetization to assess the production of propylene.
Process Description
The process flow diagram (PFD) in Figure 2 is based on the process developed and commercialized by Lurgi for converting methanol into olefins. (6) The corresponding stream table is reported in Table S8 of the Supporting Information for completeness.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Process flow diagram of propylene production from methanol.
The methanol feedstock may be produced from different routes including reforming of natural gas, coal and biomass gasification, coal-based coke oven gas, and CO2 hydrogenation. (25,51,52) The particular focus herein is on the production of methanol via either reforming of natural gas (MTP-NG) or coal-based coke oven gas (MTP-C).
The temperature and pressure of the fresh methanol feed are adjusted to 573.15 K and 165 kPa, respectively, before entering the dimethyl ether (DME) reactor. A 90% methanol equilibrium conversion is achieved under these conditions, which is typical of industrial operations. (45,55) The methanol dehydration (reaction R1) is modeled within an equilibrium reactor using the temperature-dependent constant given in eq 1.
(R1)
(1)
The outlet stream from the DME reactor, consisting of unreacted methanol, DME, and water, is fed to the main MTP reactor where methanol and DME are converted to olefins, mainly propylene. The temperature and pressure in the reactor are set to T = 698 K and P = 165 kPa in order to achieve both a high propylene selectivity and a high methanol/DME conversion. This reactor is modeled as a PFR with detailed kinetics corresponding to a ZSM-5 (zeolite) catalyst embodied in a macroporous matrix of AlPO4; see section B of the Supporting Information (Tables S4 and S5). (45) Unlike the conventional ZSM-5/alumina/silica catalyst, this catalyst does not promote the formation of methane and coke under the usual operating conditions but has a higher selectivity toward intermediate olefins such as propylene. The outlet stream of the MTP reactor is composed of (i) ethylene; (ii) propylene; (iii) C4 olefins, represented by isobutene; (45) (iv) C5 hydrocarbons, represented by 1-pentene; and (v) higher hydrocarbons ranging from C6 to C10, represented by 1-hexene, 1-heptene, 1-octene, 1-nonene, and 1-decene.
Figure 3 summarizes the MTP reaction scheme, which consists of 27 reactions in total. The first set of reactions produces the primary products ethylene, propylene, the C4 olefins, and the C5 hydrocarbons from methanol and DME. In the second set of reactions, propylene is methylated to C4 olefins and then further methylated to C5 olefins and higher hydrocarbons. The final reaction involves cracking of higher hydrocarbons back to propylene. Section B of the Supporting Information provides all of the kinetic parameters and catalyst properties needed for the MTP reactor simulation. In order to prevent coke formation, which leads to catalyst deactivation, the MTP reactor is operated isothermally. The heat released by the MTP reactor is used in a Rankine cycle to generate electricity, part of which is used to cover the electricity requirements of the plant, and the rest is sold as a co-product.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Reaction scheme in the MTP reactor model. (45)
The product stream from the MTP reactor is cooled down to 313 K in order to separate the organic and aqueous phases in a flash vessel. The olefin-rich vapor is compressed before the downstream separation; a three-stage compression train with inter-cooling is used to reduce the energy consumption and keep the temperature below the recommended 388 K safety limit. (53) The bottom product of the first distillation column comprises C4C10 hydrocarbons (naphtha), and the distillate comprises ethylene, propylene, and water. This distillate mixture is sent to a phase separator for the removal of residual water from the organic phase, without adjusting the temperature or pressure. Then, the organic phase is fed to the second distillation column where polymer-grade ethylene and propylene are obtained in the distillate and bottom products, respectively. First estimates of the number of trays, feed tray, and minimum reflux ratio in both distillation columns are obtained using the FenskeUnderwoodGilliland shortcut method and then refined using rigorous tray-by-tray computations. The resulting specifications of both distillation columns can be found in Table 1. Notice that the final separation is energy-intensive due to the low normal boiling points of ethylene and propylene, which requires the use of a refrigerant in the condenser. R134a is used here as the working fluid in the refrigeration cycle since it meets the cooling temperature requirement of the condenser (252 K) and is widely used at the industrial scale due to its low environmental burden. (53)
Table 1. Specifications for the Distillation Columns in the MTP Process
property column 1 column 2
number of trays 31 27
feed tray 14 18
reflux ratioa 3.12 10.42
condenser pressure (kPa) 2767 2689
reboiler pressure (kPa) 2827 2767
light key propylene ethylene
heavy key i-butene propylene
aComputed as 1.35 of the minimum reflux ratio.
Economic Assessment
The economic assessment of the MTP process is carried out in terms of its total annualized cost (TAC), often used during the conceptual design of chemical processes. (54,55) The TAC consist of the OPEX and the annualized CAPEX. The latter represents the annual cost of paying off the fixed capital investment of a facility over its entire lifespan, here considering 365 days of operation a year and a 10 year straight line depreciation with a minimum return on investment rate of 29%. (54) The CAPEX itself is calculated according to the module costing approach, (54) where all and each of the direct and indirect plant costs are proportional to the equipment purchased costs (Table S6). The OPEX is estimated from the costs associated to the procurement of raw materials, utilities, waste treatment, and operating and labor, which correspond to the Chinese context here (Table S7). Section A of the Supporting Information provides further details of the methods employed in the techno-economic assessment.
Environmental Assessment
The environmental assessment of the process alternatives follows the four steps of LCA: (i) goal and scope definition, (ii) inventory analysis, (iii) impact assessment, and (iv) interpretation. (29) The environmental impact metrics are quantified according to the ReCiPe 2016 methodology by employing the endpoint characterization factors of human health, ecosystem quality, and resource scarcity. Human health, expressed in terms of disability-adjusted life years (DALY), measures the number of years that a person is disabled after a disease or accident. Ecosystem quality measures the local species loss integrated over time (expressed in species × year). Resource scarcity monetizes the burdens attributed to future mineral and fossil resource extraction (expressed in US$ 2013). Our assessment adopts the hierarchist perspective, which is based on the cultural theory of scientific agreement regarding the time frame and validity of the impact mechanism. (56)
The environmental burdens are expressed per kilogram of propylene produced, the functional unit in the assessment. The total impact of the process is allocated to either propylene (product) or ethylene and naphtha (byproducts) using the economic criterion as the allocation method. Table 2 summarizes the inventories needed to conduct the impact assessment in SimaPro for the various cases. (56) We assume that the liquid waste stream generated by the MTP process is treated in a wastewater treatment facility.
Table 2. Overall Energy and Material Inventories for Producing 1 kg of Propylene from Naphtha (BAU), Propane (PDH), and Methanol (MTP)
concept BAU MTP PDH
raw materials      
naphtha (kg) 7.17    
NaOH (kg) 1.16 × 103    
methanol (kg)   4.93  
steel (kg)   4.23 × 104  
propane (kg)     1.17
waste streams      
wastewater (kg)   2.77  
CO2 direct (kg) 3.20   0.88
byproducts      
ethylene (kg) 2.44 0.08  
C4 (kg) 0.14   0.09
C5 (kg) 2.62    
H2 (kg) 0.16   0.04
naphtha   1.08  
utilities      
electricity (kJ) 6530 41.0a 2502
steam (kJ) 8830 3670 1.37
cooling (kJ) 35.1 9490b 3630
natural gas (kJ)     4218
aThe negative sign indicates that the electricity generation outweighs consumption in the process.
bIncludes cooling water and refrigeration (R134a).
Monetary Valuation
Monetary valuation, also known as monetization, converts the environmental burdens into monetary units so they can be compared against each other or with the economic indicator, which is already expressed in monetary units. (49) This approach has already been applied to the assessment of other chemicals such as methanol. (57) Herein, we employ the conversion factors reported by Weidema (50) (Table S3).
Uncertainty Analysis
Of the multiple sources of uncertainty that can affect the calculations, our assessment accounts for the uncertainty in environmental data. This uncertainty affects the life-cycle inventory entries and is modeled using the pedigree matrix (58) in SimaPro (Tables S1 and S2). Specifically, the life-cycle inventory entries are assumed to follow log-normal distributions with standard deviations resulting from the aggregation of uncertainty factors. Each of these factors is quantified based on a number of data quality indicators, such as the reliability, completeness, temporal correlation, geographical correlation, technological state, sample size, and expert judgment related to the data. The uncertainty in the life-cycle inventory entries is propagated to the environmental impacts using Monte Carlo sampling in SimaPro.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
We compare on an economic, environmental, and monetization basis the production of propylene from steam cracking of naphtha (BAU) and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to the methanol-to-propylene routes with methanol sourced either from coal (MTP-C) or natural gas (MTP-NG). Steady-state simulation of the MTP process is conducted in Aspen-HYSYS V9 using the PRSV cubic equation of state as a thermodynamic model, which is recommended for non-ideal systems involving both polar and non-polar substances as is the case in the MTP process. (5961) Since the use of energy integration is of paramount importance to achieve sustainable process designs, we use Aspen-Energy Analyser to (i) target the minimum utility consumption using the composite curve approach and (ii) design the heat-exchanger network with minimum total cost. Table 2 summarizes the overall energy and material inventories. The data for the BAU case are sourced from the work of Yang and You (1) on steam cracking of naphtha into olefins, while the information for the PDH is obtained from the work of Agarwal et al. (8) on sustainable process design of propane dehydrogenation. The following subsections present the results of the economic and environmental assessments followed by the monetary valuation of the externalities.
Economic Assessment
The diagram in Figure 4 compares the TAC per kg of propylene produced for each process alternative (PDH, MTP-C, MTP-NG, and BAU). The PDH presents the lowest TAC (US$1.21/kg), while both the MTP-C and BAU have a similar TAC, which is lower than the TAC of MTP-NG (US$1.43/kg and US$1.41/kg, respectively, versus US$1.73/kg). The MTP-NG process is more expensive than its MTP-C counterpart because the price of natural gas has been historically higher than coal in China. It is noteworthy that the conversions of methanol and DME are high in the DME and MTP reactors. The selectivity of the MTP process toward propylene and naphtha is also high, with 0.46 kmol-propylene/kmol-reactant and 0.50 kmol-naphtha/kmol-reactant (excluding water). These high conversions and selectivities prevent the need for large recycle streams in the MTP process, which benefits the TAC by reducing the equipment size and energy consumption and facilitating downstream separations all together.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Breakdown to the total annualized cost (TAC) for each process alternative.
OPEX expenditures contribute 70, 88, and 96% to the TAC of the PDH, BAU, and both MTP processes, respectively. The breakdown in Figure 4 corresponds to the contributions of feedstock, utilities, wastewater, and labor to the OPEX. Notice that electricity does not contribute to the TAC of the MTP processes since all of the electricity demand for pumping and compression is covered by the Rankine cycle. Also, cooling, which includes the costs of both the cooling water and the refrigerant (R134a) makeup, is found to have a negligible contribution. Recall that the refrigeration cycle is only used for cooling the condenser of the second distillation column separating ethylene and propylene (Figure 2), while the remaining cooling demand is met by heat exchange between process streams and cooling water.
Procurement of the methanol and naphtha feedstock is the largest contributor to the TAC, with around 73% in the BAU and MTP alternatives, while propane contributes 42% to the TAC of the PDH process. Given the importance of methanol production costs on the MTP process economics, the effect of price variations in coal and natural gas is therefore worthy of investigation. The uncertainty ranges shown in Figure 4 for the TAC of the MTPC and MTP-NG processes correspond to the maximum and minimum average annual prices for coal and natural gas, respectively, on the Chinese market over the period 20072016. (62) Those for the TAC of the BAU and PDH processes correspond to the variation in propylene price on the Chinese market (strongly correlated with that of naphtha) (63,64) and propane price in the Middle East, (65) respectively, over the same period. All of these uncertainty ranges present a significant overlap, thereby making any of the four technologies cheaper when their feedstock price (coal, naphtha, or propane) is relatively low. By contrast, the MTP-NG process might only be competitive when the price of natural gas is at its historical lowest, while both the prices of naphtha and propane are high. Nevertheless, neither of the MTP-C, MTP-NG, and PDH processes would be economically attractive compared to the BAU process when the prices of coal, natural gas, or propane are high.
Environmental Assessment
The diagrams in Figure 5 compare the endpoint environmental impacts of each process alternative and show their breakdown in terms of raw materials, utilities, wastewater, and direct emissions. Significant differences can be observed in comparing both MTP alternatives with the BAU and PDH processes. In the human health category, the MTP-C process shows an impact 81, 90, and 94% greater than its MTP-NG, BAU, and PDH counterparts, respectively. Ecosystem quality shows a similar trend for MTP-C, with an impact 83, 92, and 95% greater than the MTP-NG, PDH, and BAU alternatives, respectively. The trend is different in the resource category nonetheless, where the impact of the MTP-NG process is about 40% greater than the other three alternatives.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Breakdown of the endpoint environmental impacts and global warming potential for each process alternative.
Raw materials contribute the most to the three endpoint impact categories, with a share above 90% of the total impact category in some cases. This indicates that the steps involved in obtaining the principal feedstock, that is, methanol in the MTP process, naphtha in the BAU, and propane in the PDH, cause substantial environmental burdens. In particular, producing methanol from coal is a highly energy- and water-intensive process since the procurement of coke oven gas involves high-temperature furnaces, (62) while the gas cleaning operations demand chilled temperatures to remove the sulfur-based compounds that could poison the methanol synthesis catalyst. (66) Notice also that, unlike the TAC in Figure 4, cooling has a significant contribution on the environmental impact of both MTP processes. This is due to the 5% makeup of refrigerant (R134a) in the refrigeration cycle of the condenser of the final distillation column (Figure 2).
The much greater environmental impact of the MTP-C process is also clear from the midpoint impact category of global warming potential (GWP) in Figure 5, which includes greenhouse gases emissions associated to CO2, CH4, and NOx gases (expressed in CO2eq units). The complete LCA results expressed in terms of the midpoint impact categories can be found in Figure S1 of the Supporting Information. The MTP-C process emits a staggering 16.4 kg-CO2eq/kg-propylene, which is 74% more than MTP-C (4.3 kg-CO2eq/kg-propylene), 87% more than PDH (2.2 kg-CO2eq/kg-propylene), and 90% more than BAU (1.6 kg-CO2eq/kg-propylene). This massive difference has strong implications on the human health and ecosystem quality impact categories (see discussion above), making the coal-to-propylene route unsustainable and unjustifiable for an environmental standpoint.
Monetary Valuation
Figure 6 compares the total monetized costs of each process alternative and displays their breakdown into CAPEX, OPEX, human health, ecosystem quality, and resource contributions. The total monetized costs for MTP-C, MTP-NG, PDH, and BAU are US$8.3, US$4.4, US$2.6, and US$2.6 per kg-propylene, respectively. When accounting for externalities in the analysis, the MTP-NG and MTP-C processes turn out to be 70 and 220% more expensive than their PDH and BAU counterparts.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Breakdown of the total monetized costs for each process alternative.
The largest contribution and main difference are in terms of the human health externalities with US$4.4/kg, US$0.85/kg, US$0.45/kg, and US$0.24/kg for MTP-C, MTP-NG, PDH, and BAU, respectively. These externalities are 18 and 4 times higher in MTP-C and MTP-NG compared to BAU (10 and 2 times higher compared to PDH). The impact on human health of the coal-based process is to a very large extent attributed to the production of methanol from coal, which carries a considerable burden in such midpoint impact categories as particulate matter, human toxicity, global warming, and water use (Figure S1). The MTP-C process also exhibits the highest externalities by far in terms of ecosystem quality, with US$1.5/kg followed by MTP-NG with US$0.26/kg then PDH and BAU with only US$0.12/kg and US$0.08/kg, respectively. This much higher valuation of MTP-C is linked to its high impact in such midpoint categories as global warming, water use, freshwater and terrestrial ecotoxicity, land use/transformation, and eutrophication (Figure S1). The highest externalities in terms of resource scarcity are for the MTP-NG process, with US$1.6/kg compared to about US$0.9/kg for both BAU and MTP-C and US$0.8/kg for PDH. These results are consistent with the projections of the 2017 International Energy Outlook, (67) where global oil and natural gas consumption are expected to increase by 18 and 43% by 2040, respectively, increasing the scarcity of these resources, while coal consumption is predicted to remain steady. Also worthy of consideration is the fact that the BAU process co-produces propylene alongside ethylene, C4 and C5 hydrocarbons, and H2; see Table 2 for the relative amount of these co-products per kg-propylene. Therefore, the impact assessment of the BAU process relies on allocation, and this allocation reduces the environmental burdens attributed to BAU since propylene is produced in lesser quantity than ethylene and C5 hydrocarbons.
The diagram in Figure 6 also reports the uncertainty of the monetized endpoint impact categories. These are obtained via the pedigree matrix approach using Monte Carlo sampling with 2000 scenarios in SimaPro (Tables S3 and S4). The whiskers of the uncertainty boxes represent the most extreme data points not considered outliers, computed as the 5th and 95th percentiles; the bottom and top lines of the boxes are the 25th and 75th percentiles, respectively. Under the assumptions made in our assessment, the monetized costs of BAU and PDH are the lowest and also show a much lower variability compared to both MTP alternatives. By contrast, the MTP-C process presents the highest monetized cost and impact variability, which is attributed principally to uncertainty in the LCA data. The monetized cost of the MTP-NG process is lower than MTP-C and higher than BAU and PDH, and none of the uncertainty boxes of the MTP alternatives, not even their whiskers, overlap with the PDH and BAU processes. This leads to the conclusion that neither MTP-C nor MTP-NG is competitive with BAU when accounting for externalities. Overall, externalities provide a clear and unambiguous picture of the true cost of the MTP process, with strong implications for policy-makers and particularly in China where this on-purpose technology is being deployed on a very large scale.
The picture is different for the PDH process, which presents a similar monetized cost as BAU. This analysis confirms PDH as an appealing alternative for on-purpose propylene production in the Chinese context, where a number of facilities are already planned or under construction. (68) However, given that China has been historically a net propane importer from the United States and Middle East, the success of this technology is highly dependent on the stability of propane prices.
Further analysis of the externalities breakdown reveals that the feedstocks of MTP-C, MTP-NG, BAU, and PDH contribute about 87, 74, 80, and 58%, respectively, to their total monetized cost. Therefore, efforts toward reducing the environmental impact of all four process alternatives should primarily focus on the methanol, naphtha, and propane production. In the case of methanol, potential research directions could explore alternative production routes and feedstocks, such as the use of biomass, (69,70) biomethanol from municipal waste based on high-temperature conversion process, (71) and the production of methanol from CO2 captured from fossil-based processes and clean H2. (51,52) Such processes for lowering the environmental footprint of methanol production might also result in larger production costs, which could be reduced to some extent by process intensification strategies, including in situ separation of the co-products during the reaction step, (72,73) cogeneration of electricity and methanol in IGCC, (74) and the use of pervaporation membranes for separation of methanol from liquid mixtures, (75) among others.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This paper has presented a comparative assessment of various propylene production routes using detailed process simulation, life-cycle assessment, and monetization. A classical economic assessment based on OPEX and CAPEX reveals that the coal-to-propylene (MTP-C) route could be competitive with the conventional steam cracking of naphtha (BAU) and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). However, the consideration of externalities via monetized impacts depicts a different reality, whereby the MTP-C process presents much greater human health and ecosystem quality externalities compared to BAU or PDH. The resulting total monetized cost of on-purpose propylene using MTP-C is about three times higher, a clear indication that the coal-to-propylene route is indeed unsustainable. As for the natural-gas-to-propylene (MTP-NG) route, it presents about double the total monetized cost of BAU and PDH largely due to its human health and resource scarcity externalities. These conclusions are supported by a sensitivity analysis that shows no overlap between the MTP processes and the BAU and PDH alternatives when accounting for uncertainty in the environmental data.
Given that raw materials have substantial contributions toward the production costs and externalities, follow-up research work should concentrate on producing methanol, propane, and naphtha more efficiently. In the case of methanol, the use of alternative feedstock, such as CO2 or clean hydrogen, and the exploration of different production routes alongside process intensification strategies could reduce the environmental burdens and total cost of propylene production.
Overall, these results showcase how critical it has become to include externalities in the techno-economic assessment of products and processes in order to gather a realistic picture of their performance. In our case, the production of propylene from coal or natural gas may only be competitive when externalities are ignored, but not when they are accounted for with the production costs. Our results also delineate the potential of combining process modeling, LCA, and monetary valuation in the techno-economic assessment of chemicals to ultimately support decision-makers in the transition toward a more sustainable industry.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 