<DOCUMENT>
Beyond the Reverse Horiuti–Polanyi Mechanism in Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt Catalysts

Abstract
The catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes over Pt catalysts is generally accepted to follow a reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism. Using a microkinetic analysis in combination with results from density functional theory calculations, we show that although propane dehydrogenation (PDH) occurs by two successive dehydrogenation steps on terraces, an unexpected non-reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism accounts for more than half the propylene production at the under-coordinated active sites that dominate the kinetics of PDH. The main reaction is composed of three dehydrogenation steps that have two β-H atoms and one α-H atom removed from propane, followed by the hydrogenation of CH3CCH2; starting from this species, the formation of propylene and byproducts proceed by way of two parallel competing reactions. The proposed mechanism has been verified by exploring several key and general aspects of the kinetic behavior observed in the dehydrogenation of light alkanes, and it is found that only when adsorbate–adsorbate interactions are taken into consideration can the experimentally determined kinetics be properly reproduced. Increasing the H2 partial pressure from low values favors an increase in the coverage of free sites due to the gasification of adsorbed coke precursors, which in turn gives rise to lowered energy barriers for C–H bond breaking, thereby achieving an increased propane consumption rate. As the H2/C3H8 ratio increases, the rate of propylene production first goes up and then declines, and a maximum is observed at a H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.33, which occurs when the negative effect of the increased free 4-fold hollow sites that bring about deep dehydrogenation begins to dominate the positive effect of the increased free step sites that are responsible for activating propane. The mechanism formulated here proves to be valid even if the temperature, pressure, or the H2/C3H8 ratio is varied and hence provides a foundation for the rational design of metal and alloy catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:dehydrogenation mechanism platinum microkinetic analysis DFT adsorbate−adsorbate interactions

1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propylene, which is an important chemical intermediate in the petrochemical industry, has conventionally been produced either as a coproduct to ethylene in steam crackers or as a byproduct in refineries. (1,2) Since the start of this century, the shale gas revolution in North America has made a significant impact on the global energy market. In addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain a considerable amount of ethane and propane. (3,4) As a consequence, new steam cracker projects are based primarily on ethane as a feedstock and can only produce a negligible amount of propylene, which gives rise to an increased propylene supply–demand gap. On the other hand, shale-based propane is relatively cheap, making the current market conditions very favorable for propylene production via dehydrogenation. (5) For this reason, the propylene supply chain has been moving away from coproduction and toward on-purpose production.
The catalytic dehydrogenation of propane is a reversible reaction where the equilibrium position lies too far to the reactant side and the propylene yield is severely limited by thermodynamics. Because of its highly endothermic character under standard conditions at 298 K ( = 123.8 kJ/mol), the operating temperature of the existing commercial processes is typically kept as high as 800–980 K to achieve a reasonable propane conversion. (6) The increase in temperature, however, has a negative effect on the catalyst selectivity because side reactions, such as cracking, hydrogenolysis, deep dehydrogenation, oligomerization, cyclization, and coke formation, are promoted even more dramatically at high temperatures. (7,8) As a result, despite the simplicity in the appearance of the main reaction, the undesirable side reactions constitute a huge reaction network and yield a wide variety of C1 to C3 intermediates adsorbed on the catalyst surface, making the reaction mechanism enormously complex. (9,10)
The first step in the kinetic analysis of reactions is to establish the stoichiometry and network of the reaction. The inclusion of all possible elementary steps is essential to an accurate description of the kinetics. In most of the previous theoretical and experimental studies, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is thought of as occurring by the reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, (1,11−16) involving only two successive dehydrogenation steps in the propane molecule, followed by the desorption of propylene and H2 from the catalyst surface. In this way, the reaction pathway is actually a priori specified and, more importantly, one cannot determine the selectivity toward propylene by means of calculation and simulation without allowing the formation of undesired products, such as methane and ethylene. In PDH, whether propylene would be released from the catalyst surface or undergo deep dehydrogenation is of central importance because it not only determines the yield of propylene but also is intimately related to the amount of coke deposited and hence to the catalyst stability. Although we have pointed out in an early study that the activation energy difference between propylene dehydrogenation and desorption provides a measure of the catalyst selectivity, (17) which has now been widely used as a descriptor to screen promising candidates as catalysts for PDH, (12,13,18,19) the application of such a simple energetic quantity is apparently inadequate for more quantitative discussions.
Theoretically, the only two kinetic studies that take the side reactions into consideration so far are concerned with the mechanism of PDH over the flat Pt(111) surface, (20,21) which is based on the idea that the under-coordinated sites would be preferentially blocked due to coke formation. (12,22−25) On the other hand, it remains an open question whether the unsaturated Pt sites are deactivated permanently and completely throughout the dehydrogenation reaction. First, it was suggested by in situ and ex situ HRTEM and TAP that coke formed on the active metal surface could be moved to the catalyst support, (24,26) and the ability of the support to accommodate coke often determines the catalyst stability. Second, the kinetics of the dehydrogenation reaction were found to be strongly size-dependent. (12,27) Even after the reaction has reached a steady-state, small Pt clusters can still give a much higher turnover frequency (TOF) than large ones, meaning that the under-coordinated sites that dominate the surface of small clusters must play a role in catalyzing the reaction. Third, the recently discovered single-atom catalysts and pseudo-single-atom catalysts exhibit superior catalytic performance in a wide variety of chemical reactions, both of which have a high density of under-coordinated metal atoms and are believed to be highly active for PDH. (28−30) Hence, the complex reaction mechanism, even on the most widely studied Pt catalyst, has not yet been fully elucidated, and a full picture of how the reaction proceeds can only be achieved through an understanding of the ways in which various active sites behave and contribute to the overall kinetics.
In addition, much of our present understanding of the kinetics of heterogeneous reactions is based on the Langmuir isotherm, which assumes the independence and equivalence of adsorption sites. The deviation from the isotherm can be traced to the failure of these assumptions. For example, the enthalpy of adsorption depends on the extent of the surface coverage, mainly because the adsorbed species interact. If the species repel each other (as in most cases), the adsorption becomes less exothermic (the enthalpy of adsorption becomes less negative) as coverage increases. (31−33) Because the interactions between adsorbates may affect the energetics of elementary steps in different ways and to different extents, the reaction mechanism could be markedly different depending on whether this effect is considered.
In this work, we have performed a combined experimental and theoretical study to formulate the catalytic reaction mechanism for PDH over both the close-packed Pt(111) and the stepped Pt(211) surfaces. The kinetics of PDH, specifically the effect of the H2/C3H8 ratio on the catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, is first examined experimentally, and the central feature of this kinetic analysis is considered to validate the theoretically determined kinetics. Then, a detailed density functional theory (DFT)-assisted microkinetic model is built under the steady-state approximation and with the adsorbate–adsorbate interactions considered. Next, the active site, the dominant reaction pathway, and the key factors determining the catalyst activity and propylene selectivity are revealed. Finally, we conclude by discussing the implication of our results for understanding the non-reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes.
2. Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. DFT Calculations
DFT calculations were performed with the VASP (34−36) package using plane-wave basis sets. A plane-wave energy cutoff of 400 eV was used in the calculations to achieve a tight convergence. The interactions between valence electrons and ion cores were represented by Blöchl’s all-electron-like projector augmented wave (PAW) method. (37) Brillouin zone sampling was performed by using a Monkhorst–Pack grid (38) with respect to the symmetry of the system. The electronic occupancies were determined according to a Methfessel-Paxton scheme (39) with an energy smearing of 0.2 eV. The description of van der Waals forces is important for the C2 and C3 species involved in PDH, (13,20) so the exchange and correlation in the Kohn–Sham theory were treated with the BEEF-vdW functional. (40) In a previous study, Gautier et al. (41) showed that, compared with other vdW functionals, the BEEF-vdW functional makes reasonably reliable predictions of the geometries and energetics of the adsorption of covalently bound molecules such as ethylidyne on Pt(111).
A five-layer slab with a p(3 × 3) supercell was used to represent the Pt(111) surface. The neighboring slabs were separated by a vacuum region as thick as 12 Å to eliminate the periodic interactions in the direction perpendicular to the surface. The bottom two layers were fixed to their crystal lattice positions, while all the other atoms were allowed to fully relax. When studying the reactions on Pt(211), a p(1 × 3) supercell with 15 layers was used, and the bottom six layers were fixed. The Monkhorst–Pack grids of 5 × 5 × 1 and 5 × 3 × 1 were applied to sample the first Brillouin zone of the two slabs. All the ground-state atomic geometries were optimized by minimizing the Hellman–Feynman forces with the conjugate-gradient algorithm (42) until the total forces acting on each atom were converged better than 0.03 eV/Å. Transition-state geometries were located by using the minimum-mode following the dimer method, (43) and the transition states were verified by frequency calculations in which only one imaginary frequency was obtained for each transition state.
In this work, adsorption energies (Eads) were calculated relative to the energies of C and H in gas-phase methane and hydrogen, respectively, using the formation energy approach (44,45)
(1)
where Esurf+ads is the total energy of the surface with the adsorbate adsorbed, Esurf is the total energy of the bare surface, EC is calculated as Emethane(g) – 2Ehydrogen(g), EH is calculated as 0.5Ehydrogen(g), and α and β represent the number of carbon and hydrogen atoms in the adsorbed species, respectively. It should be noted that if all the energies in a given microkinetic model are referenced to the same set of reference energies, the variation in the reference states does not change the values of the reaction and activation energies because the reference energies may cancel out in any relative quantities. In other words, the choice of the reference states is arbitrary, provided that the atomic references are associated with the same set of substances. This approach has the advantage of not distinguishing between adsorbate states and transition states, and because it ensures thermodynamic consistency the use of the derived energies as inputs to a microkinetic model is preferred over other relative quantities.
2.2. Microkinetic Analysis
The microkinetic analysis in this work was carried out using a modified CatMAP code. (46) In general, the enthalpy (H°) and entropy (S°) were estimated under the ideal gas (47) (for gas-phase species) and harmonic (for reaction intermediates and transition states) approximations as implemented in the ASE package. (48) The rate constant (k) of elementary steps was evaluated based on the transition state theory (49)
(2)
where h is Planck’s constant, and ΔGο‡ is the Gibbs free energy change from the initial state to the transition state. In the modified code, the entropy and enthalpy of the activated complex in molecular adsorption or desorption were assumed to be equal to the entropy of the adsorbed intermediate and the enthalpy of gas-phase species, respectively, which has previously been reported to be a reasonable approximation. (49) As a consequence, the Gibbs free energy of the activated complex for molecular adsorption and desorption can be written as
(3)
where is the Gibbs free energy of the transition state, is the enthalpy of the gas-phase species, and is the entropy of the adsorbed species.
TOFs of elementary steps were determined by invoking the steady-state approximation and numerically solving the coupled differential equations. The selectivity toward a specific product was defined as the rate of formation of the product in question, divided by the rate of consumption of propane and weighted for the number of carbon atoms involved.
2.3. Experimental Methods
The alumina-supported monometallic Pt catalyst (Pt/Al2O3) used in this work was the same batch as that used in our previous study, which was prepared by the colloid method. The details of how the catalyst was prepared can be found in the literature. (50) The PDH assessments were performed in a μBenchCAT reactor (Altamira Instruments) equipped with a quartz reactor (6 mm in diameter), and the products were analyzed online with a 4-channel micro-GC (INFICON 3000). Typically, 0.05 g of catalyst was loaded in the quartz reactor. The experiments were conducted at = 14.2 h–1 and H2/C3H8 molar ratios of 0, 1.25, 2.40, 3.56, 4.76, and 6.00, which were balanced with argon to achieve a total flow of 200 mL/min. The experiments were carried out at 723.15 K and atmospheric pressure with the same total flow and catalyst loading as above. Under these conditions, the influences of internal and external diffusion were safely excluded. All the experiments were performed in a kinetic regime with relatively low propane conversions (below 10.0%). The TOFs for propane consumption and propylene production were calculated by normalizing the mass activity to the number of surface Pt atoms, which was determined by the H2 chemisorption results. More details about the TOF calculation can be found in Section S1 in the Supporting Information. The selectivity toward gas-phase products was calculated based on the carbon mass balance.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Energetics of PDH
The reaction network involving both the main and side reactions of PDH is shown in Scheme 1, which was established based on the available experimental and theoretical findings. (9,17,20,21,51,52) The 60 elementary steps can be divided into the following four groups: adsorption and desorption of gas-phase reactants and products, respectively, cleavage of the C–H bond to form dehydrogenated species, deep dehydrogenation of the adsorbed propylene or subsequent reaction intermediates, and C–C bond cracking of the C3 and C2 species. The calculated Gibbs free energy barrier for each elementary step is given in Figure 1 and Table S1 in the Supporting Information, and the geometries of the transition states for propane (TS1 and TS2), 1-propyl (TS3 and TS4), and 2-propyl (TS5 and TS6) dehydrogenation are also shown in Figure 1. For the other elementary steps, the detailed information about the geometry of the transition state is presented in Figures S1 and S2 in the Supporting Information.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Reaction Network for PDHa
aAll elementary steps are considered reversible.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (Top) Gibbs free energy barriers (at 723.15 K) for the dehydrogenation and cracking of the C3 species in PDH over (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211). (Bottom) Optimized geometries of the transition states for propane (TS1 and TS2), 1-propyl (TS3 and TS4), and 2-propyl (TS5 and TS6) dehydrogenation. Elementary steps are defined in Scheme 1 and Table S1. The Pt atoms located below the outermost layer are colored yellow.
From the TS1 and TS2 in Figure 1a, it can be seen that on Pt(111) propane is dehydrogenated on top of a Pt atom, and the H atom detached from the C3 intermediates is relaxed to either the atop or bridge site. The geometries of the transition states resemble the adsorption configurations of 1- and 2-propyl, which are located at the most stable atop site (see Figure S3 in the Supporting Information). The Gibbs free energy barrier difference between the formation of 1-propyl via r1 and that of 2-propyl via r2 is only approximately 0.02 eV, indicating that the dehydrogenation of propane to CH3CH2CH2* and CH3CHCH3* is equally favorable. Similarly, the transition states for the dehydrogenation of 1- and 2-propyl (TS3–TS6 in Figure 1a) are quite final-state-like, and all four reactions take place at the bridge site. Furthermore, both 1- and 2-propyl tend to be dehydrogenated to propylene (via r4 and r5) instead of 1- and 2-propylidene via r3 and r6, respectively, because the formation of propylene has lower forward Gibbs free energy barriers. From the analysis above, one can naturally conclude that the most kinetically preferred routes for propylene formation on Pt(111) are r1 → r4 and r2 → r5, which follow the generally accepted reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism. Moreover, the adsorbed propyne is suggested to be the starting point for C–C bond breaking on Pt(111), which is due to the fact that CH3CCH* is the sole C3 species that has a lower cracking barrier than the dehydrogenation barrier (1.20 vs. 1.38 eV for r49 vs. r18, respectively, as shown in Figure 1a). These results obtained on Pt(111) are consistent with the previous theoretical studies using different DFT functionals, such as PBE, opt-PBE vdW-DF, BEEF-vdW, etc. (9,17,20,21)
On Pt(211), all six geometries of TS1–TS6 resemble those over Pt(111), as shown in Figure 1b. However, the dehydrogenation reaction occurs by a completely different mechanism. As can be seen in Figure 1a and b, the Gibbs free energy barriers for the dehydrogenation steps on the stepped surface are quite lower than those on the terrace surface, suggesting a higher catalytic activity. In addition, the great difference between the Gibbs free energy barriers for propane activation to CH3CH2CH2* via r1 and CH3CHCH3* via r2 implies that the removal of the β-H from propane is kinetically preferred. Moreover, the high Gibbs free energy barriers for the CH3CH2CH2* and CH3CHCH3* dehydrogenation to propylene compared to those for the formation of CH3CH2CH* and CH3CCH3* predict that both CH3CH2CH2* and CH3CHCH3* are more likely to be converted to the deeply dehydrogenated species than to the target product propylene. To ensure that the use of the newly developed BEEF-vdW functional does not account for the observed deviation from the reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, another five widely used exchange-correlation functionals, including PBE, revPBE, optPBE-vdW, optB86b-vdW, and HSE06, were applied to verify the unexpected results. Since the relative magnitudes of the activation energies for the four aforementioned dehydrogenation steps play a key role in determining the pathway for propylene production, the dehydrogenation of CH3CHCH3* (r5 and r6) was taken as an example and the calculated energy barriers are presented and compared in Figure 2a. From the figure, one can see that the activation energy for β-H abstraction from CH3CHCH3* via r6 is invariably lower than that for α-H abstraction via r5 independent of the functionals used, which confirms that only a small amount of propane would be converted to propylene via r4 and r5 on Pt(211). Thus, it appears that there is an alternative to the commonly accepted mechanism for PDH on the corrugated Pt surface, which makes it difficult to identify the dominant reaction pathway from purely energetic considerations.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Activation energies (Eact,f) for the 2-propyl dehydrogenation to propylene and 2-propylidene via r5 and r6, respectively, over Pt(211), as calculated using different exchange-correlation functionals. (b) Two different transition states for the CH3CCH* dehydrogenation (TS18) over Pt(211), as obtained by both the BEEF-vdW and PBE functionals.
In addition, the Gibbs free energy barrier for CH3CCH* cracking is no longer lower than that for dehydrogenation (1.37 and 0.74 eV for r49 and r18, respectively), which is in contrast to our previous PBE predictions. (17) A closer examination of the results indicates this difference arises from the different geometries of the transition state located for CH3CCH* dehydrogenation (r18). As shown in Figure 2b, the activated complex may be found either at the 4-fold hollow site of the step or at the step edge. The former structure resembles the adsorption configuration of CH3CC* (see Figure S4), and the latter is similar to that reported using the PBE functional. (17) The present work shows that both the BEEF-vdW and the PBE functionals give rise to virtually the same geometries of the two transition states and, regardless of the functional used, the dehydrogenation of CH3CCH* is likely to take place at the 4-fold hollow site of the step rather than occurring at the step edge because the transition-state energy for the latter process is 0.90 and 0.79 eV less negative for the BEEF-vdW and PBE functionals, respectively. Given the fact that the dehydrogenation reaction is kinetically more favorable than the cracking reaction for all the C3 species except CH3CC* (see Figure 1b), CH3CC* is predicted to be the starting point for C–C bond breaking on Pt(211).
3.2. Experimentally Determined Kinetics of PDH
Because PDH has a very complex mechanism, the analysis of energetics alone cannot give much physical insight, and a comprehensive microkinetic analysis is highly desired. To gain confidence in the results of the microkinetic analysis, at least several key aspects of the theoretical predictions need to be validated and confirmed by experimental data. In this work, the experimentally determined PDH kinetics were obtained on Pt nanoparticles around 5.0 nm in size, and the details of the catalyst characterization can be found in our previous work (50) and Figure S5 in the Supporting Information.
The H2/alkane ratio is generally used to investigate the effect of H2 cofeeding with alkane on the catalytic activity and alkene selectivity, where the H2 and inert flow rates are varied while the alkane and total inlet flow rates are held constant. (21,53−55) The experimental results in Figure 3a indicate that the TOF for propane consumption () is increased by ten times when hydrogen is introduced to the inlet stream with a H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.25 and continued to increase with increasing the ratio. The positive effect of the cofeeding of hydrogen with propane on the activity of PDH has previously been reported in the literature, (22,54) which suggested that the cofeeding can suppress coke formation through the hydrogenation of the coke precursor species and therefore maintain the catalytic activity over the Pt catalyst.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Plots of TOFs for propane consumption and propylene production as well as propylene selectivities over 5 nm Pt nanoparticles obtained (a) in experiment and from the microkinetic analysis (b) without and (c) with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane.
As for the production of propylene, the dependence of the TOF () on the H2/C3H8 ratio exhibits a distinctly different pattern, where the rate first shows a positive hydrogen-pressure dependence, and then the rate law has a negative reaction order in hydrogen when more hydrogen continues to be added to the inlet stream. It is important to note that we have ensured that the amount of propylene in the gas mixture is much less than its equilibrium concentration throughout the reaction (see Figure S6 in the Supporting Information), and the experiments were carried out in the kinetic regime. The observation that the curve goes through an inflection point at the H2/C3H8 ratio of around 1.30 has previously been reported, (21,54) not only in PDH but also in the dehydrogenation of ethane and butane on various Pt-based catalysts; (54−56) that is, it is a characteristic feature of the kinetics of the dehydrogenation of light alkanes over Pt.
Furthermore, it is found that the cofeeding of hydrogen has a negative effect on the selectivity toward propylene (). Specifically, as the H2/C3H8 ratio increases from 0 to 6, the value decreases monotonically from 84.8% to 26.8%, implying an increase in the selectivity toward the C2 and C1 species (see Figure S7 in the Supporting Information). The explanation is probably that the hydrogenolysis reaction has a more positive reaction order in hydrogen than the dehydrogenation reaction, and the increase in the hydrogen content would promote the side reaction more dramatically. Through a microkinetic analysis, however, Saerens et al. (21) predicted that the propylene selectivity on the Pt(111) surface should not be influenced much by the increased H2/C3H8 inlet ratio, and Lian et al. (20) claimed by carrying out kinetic Monte Carlo simulations that the selectivity toward propylene can even be increased with the introduction of H2 over Pt(111). Therefore, the computational work so far seems to have difficulty properly reproducing the experimentally determined kinetics of PDH.
3.3. Microkinetic Analysis without Adsorbate–Adsorbate Interactions
Based on Scheme 1, a microkinetic model was constructed and solved by invoking the steady-state approximation (see Section S5 in the Supporting Information for details). In the kinetic model, Pt(111) is viewed as composed of terrace (labeled with “t”) sites, and Pt(211) is thought of as comprising two types of active sites, namely 4-fold hollow (labeled with “f”) and step (labeled with “s”) sites, as shown in Figure 4. The reasoning behind the site definition is that, in more detailed DFT calculations, CH3CC*, CHC*, and CC* are found to prefer the 4-fold hollow site of the step while the other species are bound more strongly at the step edge (see Figure S4 in the Supporting Information). In addition, a hydrogen reservoir site is considered on both Pt(111) (labeled with “ht”) and Pt(211) (labeled with “hs”), which is based on the assumption that atomic hydrogen is so small that its adsorption is independent of the adsorption of other species (that is, the interactions between hydrogen and other species are negligibly small, giving rise to noncompetitive adsorption). (57,58)
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic representations of active sites on (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211). On Pt(111), adsorbates occupying the sites labeled with “t” refer to adsorption at the terrace sites. On Pt(211), adsorbates occupying the sites labeled with “s” and “f” refer to adsorption at the step and 4-fold hollow sites, respectively.
In this work, the catalytic behavior of supported Pt catalysts was interpreted in terms of a multifaceted kinetic model, where the coordinatively saturated (terraces) and unsaturated (steps or edges) active sites are represented by the close-packed (111) and stepped (211) surfaces, respectively. For simplicity, a “no diffusion” model (59) was used, in which the reaction is considered to take place independently on Pt(111) and Pt(211). Thus, the calculated TOFs on Pt nanoparticles can be obtained using a linear combination of the TOF on each surface. Because nanoparticles of different sizes and shapes have different relative occurrences of active sites of various types, the TOFs were evaluated on the assumption that the 5.0 nm Pt nanoparticles have an icosahedral shape (see Figure S8 in the Supporting Information). (60,61) It is worth noting that no effort has been devoted to fitting the simulation data to the experiments.
Here, we first conducted a microkinetic analysis without adsorbate–adsorbate interactions to reveal the kinetics of PDH over Pt, and the results are presented in Figure 3b. It is found that the inflection point of the plot of occurs at a H2/C3H8 ratio of 0.67, which is much lower than that found in experiment. More importantly, there is an unexpected increase in the and at high H2/C3H8 ratios, which is absent in the experimental results. As mentioned in the Section 1, the neglect of lateral adsorbate–adsorbate interactions is the most likely reason for the discrepancies between the simulated and experimental kinetics. As illustrated in Figure 5a, the active sites are considerably blocked by the abundant reaction intermediates, such as CH_t and C_t at the “t” site, CH_s and C_s at the “s” site, and CHC_f at the “f” site (the values of the coverages that were determined from the microkinetic model without adsorbate–adsorbate interactions are included in Section S7 in the Supporting Information), indicating that there must exist strong adsorbate–adsorbate interactions. These interactions have great influences on the surface coverages and chemisorption strengths of reaction intermediates and are the major factors affecting the accuracy of the predicted kinetics.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Surface coverages of species at the “t”, “s”, and “f” sites obtained from the microkinetic model (a) without and (b) with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions at 723.15 K, 0.03 bar of propane, and H2/C3H8 = 0.03.
3.4. Microkinetic Analysis Including Adsorbate–Adsorbate Interactions
In light of this fact, adsorbate–adsorbate interactions were then included in our microkinetic model. Previously, Saerens et al. (21) constructed a coverage-dependent simulation by co-adsorbing hydrogen with other species to study the effect of the hydrogen coverage on the catalyst performance in PDH. They found that the reaction activity is about three times lower than that in the model without hydrogen co-adsorption, and the H2/C3H8 feed ratio at which the highest rate for propylene production is attained changes from 3.0 to 1.5. Lian et al. (20) also evaluated the lateral interactions between adsorbates by cluster expansion Hamiltonians, and lateral interactions of up to 0.4 eV were observed between C1 intermediates. In our model, the self-interactions of 11 reaction intermediates, including C_t, CH_t, and CH3C_t on Pt(111) and C_s, CH_s, CHCH_s, CH2C_s, CH3C_s, CC_f, CHC_f, and CH3CC_f on Pt(211), were considered because their coverages are predicted to be greater than 0.01 ML at the H2/C3H8 ratio of 0.03 by the microkinetic analysis without adsorbate–adsorbate interactions. In addition, the cross-interactions between CHC_f and 29 species are also included, consisting of (i) the abundant reaction intermediates, including C_s, CH_s, CH2C_s, CH3C_s, CC_f, and CH3CC_f; (ii) the transition states for the dehydrogenation of the C3 species, such as the cracking of CH3CCH_s and CH3CC_f; and (iii) the adsorbed CH3CHCH2_s, CH3CCH_s, CH2CH2_s, and CHCH_s. Other interactions between the species involved are negligibly small and neglected, which is a commonly used strategy for describing the kinetics of complex reactions involving a large number of elementary steps and reaction intermediates. (62,63)
The lateral adsorbate–adsorbate interactions were modeled using a second-order expansion of the integral adsorption energy in terms of the coverage
(4)
where Eint is the integral adsorption energy on a surface, which is a function of the coverages of all the reaction intermediates, is the differential adsorption energy of species i in the low-coverage limit, fsq is a piecewise linear function for the energy as a function of the coverages at the adsorption sites s and q, and εij is a matrix of parameters for the interaction between species i and j, which was determined by fitting the interaction model to the DFT-calculated data (see below). The differential adsorption energy can be obtained by differentiating eq 4 with respect to the surface coverage
(5)
where is the differential adsorption energy of species k, fsq′ is the derivative of fsq with respect to the total coverage at sites s and q, and qk denotes the site q with species k adsorbed.
The value of εij was obtained by minimizing the error function, using the downhill simplex algorithm
(6)
where N is the number of DFT data used to fit each interaction parameter. and are the integral and differential adsorption energies estimated by DFT calculations, respectively
(7)
(8)
where is the change in the surface coverage after introducing an adsorbate. When , and . The substitution of εij into eq 5 yields the differential adsorption energy of each intermediate as a function of the surface coverage, which is then used as an input into the microkinetic model. More technical details of the interaction model are included in Section S8 in the Supporting Information and the literature. (64)
Several representative adsorption and co-adsorption configurations as a function of the site coverage are shown in panels a and b in Figure 6, respectively. As indicated in Figure 6a, the interaction model predicts with reasonable accuracy the DFT-calculated coverage-dependent differential adsorption energy. A comparison between panels a and b in Figure 5 reveals that, with the consideration of the repulsive adsorbate–adsorbate interactions, the coverages of the abundant reaction intermediates are substantially decreased, and many active sites originally blocked are now ready for adsorption (the values of the coverages determined from the microkinetic model with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions are included in Section S9 in the Supporting Information). Importantly, the experimentally determined kinetics of PDH over 5 nm Pt nanoparticles can be well reproduced by the microkinetic analysis with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions, as can be seen in Figure 3c. In particular, the inflection point of the plot of is predicted to be at the H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.33, which is very close to the experimental observation. Furthermore, although the predicted TOFs are higher than the experimental values, the dependences of the catalytic activity and catalyst selectivity on the H2/C3H8 ratio (especially at the high values) apparently follow the same trend as that exhibited in experiment. The overestimated TOFs have also been reported by Saerens et al. (21) and Lian et al. (20) One of the possible reasons can be traced to the overestimation of the rate constants by the transition state theory, which is associated with the “recrossings” that cross back into the reactant region on the potential energy surface and are miscounted as reactive events. (65) Another reason is that the simulations are conducted on clean Pt surfaces, while in reality the strongly adsorbed species could partially occupy the active sites and thus impair the catalytic activity.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Adsorption configurations of CH_t, CH_s, and CHC_f at different coverages and the corresponding coverage-dependent differential adsorption energies. The points represent the energies computed using DFT calculations, and the solid lines represent the energies obtained from the second-order adsorbate–adsorbate interaction model. (b) Adsorption configurations of CH_s at CHC_f coverages of 0, 0.33, and 0.67 ML.
The detailed results from the microkinetic analysis over Pt(111) and Pt(211) are shown in Figure 7a. It is found that the activity of Pt(211) is orders-of-magnitude greater than that of Pt(111), which can be explained by the lower apparent activation energy on Pt(211). From Figure 7b, one can see that the calculated apparent activation energy on Pt(211) is 0.20 eV at a H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.00, which is 0.49 eV lower than that on Pt(111). These findings are in accordance with the experimental observations by Zhu et al., (12) who proposed that the activation energy for PDH increases with increasing Pt cluster size and therefore with increasing the fraction of terrace sites. As a result, the catalytic behavior of the 5 nm-sized Pt catalyst is suggested to be dominated by Pt(211), although Pt(111) has a much higher mole fraction on the catalyst surface (approximately 74.0%; see Section S6 in the Supporting Information).
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Plots of TOFs for propane consumption and propylene production as well as propylene selectivities over Pt(111) and Pt(211) obtained from the microkinetic analysis with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane. (b) Apparent activation energy for the propane consumption over Pt(111) and Pt(211). (c–e) Coverages of free sites and abundant reaction intermediates on Pt(111) and Pt(211. (f–g) Gibbs free energy barriers and TOFs for propane activation (r1 and r2) and CH3CC_f formation and cracking (r17, r18, and r50) reactions on Pt(211) obtained from the microkinetic analysis without (dashed line) and with (solid line) adsorbate–adsorbate interactions.
In addition, the rate for propane consumption increases as the H2/C3H8 ratio goes up on both the Pt(111) and the Pt(211) surfaces (see Figure 7a). It is found that the increase in the does not bear any direct relation to the variation in the dehydrogenation barrier caused by the interaction between H and other adsorbed species or activated complexes because the coverage of hydrogen is invariably low under all the reaction conditions concerned (see Figure S10 in the Supporting Information). Rather, at low inlet H2/C3H8 ratios, it is closely related to the increased coverage of free sites (see Figure 7c–e) and the lowered coverage-dependent energy barriers for propane activation (see Figure 7f). Without H2 cofeeding, high coverages of the deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors, particularly CH_t and C_t on Pt(111) and CH_s, C_s, and CHC_f on Pt(211), and high Gibbs free energy barriers for propane dehydrogenation (r1 and r2) are observed, which give rise to the low activity. As the partial pressure of H2 rises, the abundant reaction intermediates would be readily removed as byproducts through hydrogenation, making more active sites ready to activate C–H bonds. As can be seen in Figure S11 in the Supporting Information, the increased H2/C3H8 ratio has a positive effect on the rates for CH and C hydrogenation to CH2 and CH, respectively, and on the rate for CHC_f cracking to CH_s and C_s, thus promoting the formation of methane. More importantly, the increase in the coverage of free sites in turn leads to the lowered Gibbs free energy barriers for C–H bond breaking. For instance, when the H2/C3H8 ratio increases from 0.03 to 0.67, the Gibbs free energy barriers for r1 and r2 decrease from 1.66 and 1.58 eV to 1.55 and 1.47 eV on Pt(211), respectively. Thus, in principle the essential role of the increased H2/C3H8 ratio at low values is to give rise to more active sites by gasifying the adsorbed C1 and C2 species, lowering the dehydrogenation barriers and hence achieving a long-term stability of the catalyst. It should be noted that when the H2/C3H8 ratio continues to increase, the coverage of free sites may exceed the threshold values at which adsorbate–adsorbate interactions can be neglected, and for then the Gibbs free energy barriers begin to remain constant, and the increased TOFpropane with increasing the H2/C3H8 ratio is attributed solely to the increased coverages of free sites.
On the other hand, the effect of the H2/C3H8 ratio on the rate for propylene production differs greatly on Pt(111) and Pt(211), as can be seen in Figure 7a. On Pt(111), the TOFpropane continues to increase with increasing the H2/C3H8 ratio, and the value of is insensitive to the change in the partial pressure of H2. By comparison, the TOFpropane on Pt(211) first increases to a maximum at the H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.33 and then declines, which is in remarkably good agreement with the experiment. Meanwhile, the propylene selectivity decreases steadily with the H2/C3H8 ratio, bearing close resemblance to the experimentally determined kinetics. These important differences and similarities, together with the fact that Pt(211) shows a much stronger activity, suggest that under-coordinated Pt atoms cannot be completely deactivated under realistic reaction conditions and would even play a dominant role in catalyzing PDH.
It should be noted that the characteristic feature of the PDH kinetics on Pt can only be properly reproduced by the microkinetic analysis with the inclusion of the lateral adsorbate–adsorbate interactions on the stepped surface. The improvement in the reproduction of the experimentally determined kinetics (particularly the inflection point of the TOFpropane curve) benefits from the more accurately predicted surface coverages and energetics. In the microkinetic model without adsorbate–adsorbate interactions, the Gibbs free energy barriers do not change with the surface coverages of the adsorbates. As the H2/C3H8 ratio rises, the increase in the coverage of *_s would speed up the consumption of propane (r1 and r2), while the growth in the coverage of *_f would accelerate the rate of the deep dehydrogenation and cracking reactions (e.g., CH3CC_f formation via r17 and r18). The inflection point of the plot of TOFpropane occurs at the H2/C3H8 ratio of 0.67 (see Figure S12 in the Supporting Information), where the negative effect of the increased *_f coverage begins to dominate the positive effect of the increased *_s coverage.
When the repulsive interactions are included in the kinetic model, the Gibbs free energy of activation, and hence the rate constant, becomes coverage-dependent (see Figure 7f). In particular, when the surface coverages of the “s” and “f” sites exceed the threshold values of 0.50 and 0.33 ML, respectively, the Gibbs free energy barriers for bond-breaking reactions are increased as a result of the weakened bonding of the adsorbates to the surface. Thus, the variation in the kinetics depends upon the changes in both the surface coverages and the rate constants. As can be seen in Figure 7d and e, the coverage of adsorbates is decreased due to the repulsive lateral interactions between them, but the increased Gibbs free energy barriers (see Figure 7f) almost counteract the effect of the increased coverage of *_s on the rate of the main reaction of PDH, as shown in Figure 7g. For the side reaction, however, the rate at a given H2/C3H8 ratio is generally lower than that without including adsorbate–adsorbate interactions (see Figure 7g) because the effect of the decreased rate constant dominates the effect of the increased coverage of *_f. Interestingly, the difference in the side reaction rate becomes greater as the H2/C3H8 ratio increases to 2 and then goes down. Given the fact that the main reaction rate does not change very much, the inhibition of the side reaction by the presence of adsorbate–adsorbate interactions, especially at low H2/C3H8 ratios, leads to the optimum H2/C3H8 ratio shifting to a higher value (1.33), causing it to be much closer to that of the experimental observation.
Furthermore, the unexpected increase in the value at very high H2/C3H8 ratios (>4.67, see Figure S12) on Pt(211) can be eliminated by including the interactions between the species adsorbed at the “f” site. It is found that the reduction in the coverage of CHC_f plays a dominant role in lowering the Gibbs free energy barriers for the side reactions (e.g., r17, r18, and r50) with increasing H2/C3H8 ratios. At the high ratios, the coverage of *_s is above 0.50 ML, and the adsorbate–adsorbate interactions have no effect on the main reaction; meanwhile, the side reaction rate increases faster than that in the absence of the lateral interactions, mainly because the weakening of the interaction of CHC_f with other species becomes more pronounced when there are more free “f” sites available for bonding. Hence, the Gibbs free energy barriers are less increased. For this reason, only when the adsorbate–adsorbate interactions are taken into consideration can we predict with reasonable accuracy the dependence of the production rate of propylene on the H2 partial pressure.
3.5. Reaction Mechanism
3.5.1. Flux Analysis
Having obtained a reasonably reliable description of the PDH kinetics, we are now in a position to formulate the reaction mechanism. The flux analysis of the reaction was performed at 723.15 K and the optimum H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.33 over both Pt(111) and Pt(211), as illustrated in Figure 8. On Pt(111), the dominant pathways for propylene production (see the red arrows in Figure 8a) are found to be along r1 → r4 and r2 → r5, which agree completely with our energetic analysis in Section 3.1 and further demonstrate that the production of propylene on Pt(111) follows the well-known reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism. In addition, the flux analysis confirms that the formation of byproducts arises primarily from the cracking of CH3CCH_t via r49, as indicated by the blue arrows in Figure 8a. Moreover, it is found that CH3CCH_t comes mainly from the deep dehydrogenation of CH3CH2CH2_t and CH3CHCH3_t via r3 and r6, respectively, rather than the dehydrogenation of propylene via r9 and r11. Therefore, the formation of propylene and byproducts proceeds essentially by way of two parallel reactions starting from CH3CHCH3_t. In light of this fact, the reaction network on Pt(111) is simplified in Scheme 2.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Flux analysis of PDH under experimental reactor inlet conditions (723.15 K, 0.03 bar of propane, and 0.04 bar of hydrogen) over (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211) with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions considered. The arrows, which are labeled with the percentage of the total reaction flux, indicate the direction the reversible elementary steps actually proceed. The percentage of the reaction flux was calculated as the absolute value of the net rate for that elementary step divided by the rate for propane consumption.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Simplified Reaction Network for PDH over Pt(111) and Pt(211)
On Pt(211), it is interesting to find that in addition to the two pathways mentioned above, a third route that proceeds by a non-reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism (see the red arrows in Figure 8b), which is composed of three dehydrogenation steps followed by one hydrogenation step (r2 → r6 → r12 → r11), contributes to the PDH kinetics as well. More importantly, this pathway accounts for more than half (51.70%) of the propylene production and therefore plays a dominant role on Pt(211). A detailed analysis indicates that the initial dehydrogenation of propane via r2 is preferred over r1, and 77.62% of the propane is dehydrogenated to CH3CHCH3_s. However, only 10.76% of the CH3CHCH3_s species is converted to propylene via r5, and most of them are dehydrogenated to CH3CCH3_s and then further to CH3CCH2_s. Finally, 29.13% of CH3CCH2_s is hydrogenated to form 51.07% propylene via r11. It is important to note that this plausible reaction mechanism persists and dominates even at higher temperatures and pressures (see Figure S13 in the Supporting Information). On this stepped surface, the cleavage of C–C bonds is more likely to occur in CH3CC_f via r50 (see the blue arrows in Figure 8b) than in CH3CCH_s, in accordance with the predictions from energetic analysis. At the H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.33, although the Gibbs free energy barrier for CH3CCH_s dehydrogenation is raised by 0.25 eV by the presence of the adsorbate–adsorbate interactions, its value remains lower than the almost unchanged cracking barrier of CH3CCH_s, which is in contrast to the results on Pt(111), where the C–C bond breaking in CH3CCH_t is kinetically preferred. In much the same way, the reaction network for PDH over Pt(211) is also simplified in Scheme 2. It can be seen that the side reaction competes with the main reaction at CH3CCH2 rather than at CH3CHCH3.
To see if the reaction mechanism would change significantly as the H2/C3H8 ratio is varied, the flux analysis was carried out under different reaction conditions. On Pt(111), increasing the H2/C3H8 ratio would promote the forward reaction of r4 and r5, thus producing adsorbed propylene more rapidly (Figure 9a). Meanwhile, the reverse reaction of r49 is inhibited more dramatically than the forward reaction, leading to an increased CH3CCH_t cracking rate and, consequently, to an increase in the byproduct formation. As a result, the percentages of the reaction flux for both propylene production and C3 cracking do not change very much (see Figure 9a); that is, the dominant propylene production pathways observed at the H2/C3H8 ratio of 1.33 invariably make major contributions to the production of propylene even if the H2 partial pressure is changed.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Forward and reverse reaction rates of elementary steps obtained from the microkinetic model with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane for H2/C3H8 ratios of 0.03, 1.33, and 6.00 as well as the percentage of the reaction flux for elementary steps as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio over (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211).
On Pt(211), however, the situation becomes slightly different. As the H2/C3H8 ratio rises, the forward reaction rate of r9 is initially promoted more dramatically than the reverse reaction rate (see Figure 9b); consequently, less propane is converted to the adsorbed propylene via r9. When the H2/C3H8 ratio is higher than 2, the forward reaction becomes dominant, meaning that propylene is consumed rather than being produced and becomes a primary product that reacts further to form byproducts. In addition, the increase in the H2/C3H8 ratio has a more pronounced effect on the acceleration of the forward reaction of r50 than on that of the reverse, giving rise to an increased contribution from CH3CCH_f to the cracking reaction. Interestingly, at low H2/C3H8 ratios less than 1.33 the cracking of the C3 species tends to start from CH3CCH_s via r49, which arises from the large increase in the Gibbs free energy barrier for the dehydrogenation of CH3CCH_s due to the presence of the adsorbate–adsorbate interactions. Finally, although the mechanism for the side reaction may change slightly with the H2/C3H8 ratio, the dominant reaction pathway for propylene production over Pt(211) still follows the non-reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, as reflected in the large value of the percentage of the reaction flux for r11.
3.5.2. Sensitivity Analysis
To examine more closely the key factors that influence the catalytic activity and selectivity of the more active Pt(211) surface, it is advantageous to conduct a sensitivity analysis by calculating the degree of rate control (DRC) for propane consumption and the degree of selectivity control (DSC) for propylene production. These two quantities have been widely used in the investigation of complex reactions taking place by mechanisms that involve several elementary steps. (58,63,66)
In this work, the DRC that is originally proposed by Stegelmann et al. (67,68) was calculated as the relative change of the propane consumption rate in response to the variation of the Gibbs free energy of the reaction intermediate (or transition state) i while keeping the Gibbs free energies of all other intermediates and transition states fixed
(9)
which provides a measure of the degree to which the would depend upon the Gibbs free energy of that species. In much the same way, the DSC for the catalyst selectivity (Spropylene) toward propylene production can be written as
(10)
Under these definitions, the larger the magnitude of DRC (or DSC), the more greatly would the energy level of that species influence the TOFpropane (or Spropylene). Moreover, a positive DRC (or DSC) indicates that decreasing the Gibbs free energy of that species may increase the TOFpropane (or Spropylene), while a negative value implies the opposite.
It can be seen from Figure 10a that, under the reaction conditions of interest, the Gibbs free energy of the transition state for the dehydrogenation of propane to 2-propyl (CH3CH-HCH3_s) has the largest absolute value of DRC, suggesting that the rate of propane consumption is most sensitive to the Gibbs free energy of CH3CH-HCH3_s. The finding that the first dehydrogenation step is the rate-limiting step for the overall reaction is in remarkably good agreement with experimental observations. (12) The positive value of DRC for CH3CH-HCH3_s indicates that the TOFpropane would decrease if the Gibbs free energy of CH3CH-HCH3_s became more negative. Nevertheless, some other species would also play a role in controlling the overall rate, especially at low H2/C3H8 ratios. For instance, the DRCs for CH3CH-HCH3_s, CH_s, and C_s were calculated to be 0.525, −0.202, and −0.319, respectively, taking comparable values at the H2/C3H8 ratio of 0.33. Thus, the catalytic activity also depends upon the stability of CH_s and C_s, and the negative DRC values signify that the propane consumption rate may rise if CH_s and C_s could be destabilized. This relationship makes sense because CH_s and C_s are the abundant reaction intermediates on Pt(211) and tend to block free sites that are required for propane activation.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Plots of (a) the degree of rate control (DRC) for propane consumption and (b) the degree of selectivity control (DSC) for propylene production obtained from the microkinetic analysis with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions over Pt(211) as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane.
Figure 10b depicts the calculated DSCs as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio. From the figure, one can see that the Spropylene over Pt(211) is most affected by the Gibbs free energies of the transition state for the activation of C–H bonds in propane (CH3CH-HCH3_s) and methane (CH3–H_s). The DSCs for CH3CH-HCH3_s and CH3–H_s have opposite signs, indicating that the lowering of the activation energies for PDH and methane formation has a positive and negative effect on the catalyst selectivity, respectively. Although the activation of propane would also give rise to side products in addition to propylene, the acceleration of this step apparently plays a beneficial role in the production of propylene. In addition, it is interesting to find that the value of Spropylene can be increased if CHC_f is bound more tightly to the surface. The reasoning behind this remark is that CHC_f is the most abundant reaction intermediate at the “f” site; the decreased coverage of free “f” sites has a positive effect on the catalyst selectivity, which is consistent with the finding in Section 3.4 that the growth in the coverage of *_f accelerates the rate of the deep dehydrogenation and cracking reactions.
4. Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this contribution, a detailed DFT-assisted microkinetic analysis that includes adsorbate–adsorbate interactions has been carried out to interpret the kinetics of PDH over Pt catalysts. The experimental results show that the rate for propane consumption increases as the H2/C3H8 ratio goes up, but the rate of production of propylene first increases and then goes down. These characteristic features are then used to validate and confirm the theoretically determined kinetics. It is found that the patterns of the dependence of the and can be well reproduced, and the optimum H2/C3H8 ratio of around 1.30 can be predicted with reasonable accuracy after the lateral interactions are considered in the microkinetic model.
The activity of Pt(211) is orders of magnitude greater than that of Pt(111), and its selectivity toward propylene decreases steadily with the H2/C3H8 ratio, bearing close resemblance to the experiment. Thus, the under-coordinated Pt atoms cannot be completely deactivated under realistic reaction conditions and are expected to dominate the catalytic behavior of the prepared catalyst, even though terraces have a much higher mole fraction on the catalyst surface. Through the flux analysis, we find that the conversion from propane to propylene on Pt(111) occurs by the generally accepted reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, and the formation of propylene and byproducts proceed essentially by way of two parallel reactions starting from CH3CHCH3. On Pt(211), however, an unexpected reaction pathway is proposed to dominate the kinetics, which consists of three dehydrogenation steps that have two β-H atoms and one α-H atom removed from propane, followed by the hydrogenation of CH3CCH2; at this species, the deep dehydrogenation reaction competes with the production of propylene. The subsequent sensitivity analysis shows that the first dehydrogenation step in propane controls the rate of the overall reaction, and the selectivity toward propylene is determined largely by the competition between propane activation and methane formation.
The formulation of the non-reverse Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism here is expected to be of great and general importance for a molecular-level view of the pathway from alkane to alkene, which would in turn boost the computational design of metal and alloy catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation reactions.
Supporting Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acscatal.0c03381.
Experimental TOF calculation, reaction network for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), optimized geometries of adsorbed species, experimental results, multisite microkinetic model of PDH, and microkinetic analyses on Pt(111) and Pt (211) (PDF)
cs0c03381_si_001.pdf (2.95 MB)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system: http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Yi-An Zhu - UNILAB, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China;  http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6226-0711;  Email: yanzhu@ecust.edu.cn
Authors
Ling Xiao - UNILAB, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China
Yu-Ling Shan - UNILAB, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China
Zhi-Jun Sui - UNILAB, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China;  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7819-6205
De Chen - Department of Chemical Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway;  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5609-5825
Xing-Gui Zhou - UNILAB, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China
Wei-Kang Yuan - UNILAB, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgments
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This work is supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China (nos. 91645122, 22073027, and U1663221), the Natural Science Foundation of Shanghai (no. 20ZR1415800), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (no. 2018YFB0604700), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (no. 222201718003). The computational time provided by the Notur project is highly acknowledged.
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 68 other publications.
1Sattler, J. J.; Ruiz-Martinez, J.; Santillan-Jimenez, E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides. Chem. Rev. 2014, 114, 10613– 10653,  DOI: 10.1021/cr5002436 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
2Coperet, C.; Allouche, F.; Chan, K. W.; Conley, M. P.; Delley, M. F.; Fedorov, A.; Moroz, I. B.; Mougel, V.; Pucino, M.; Searles, K.; Yamamoto, K.; Zhizhko, P. A. Bridging the Gap between Industrial and Well-Defined Supported Catalysts. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 6398– 6440,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201702387 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
3Bruijnincx, P. C. A.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Shale Gas Revolution: An Opportunity for the Production of Biobased Chemicals?. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 11980– 11987,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.201305058 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
4McFarland, E. Unconventional Chemistry for Unconventional Natural Gas. Science 2012, 338, 340– 342,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1226840 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
5National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. The Changing Landscape of Hydrocarbon Feedstocks for Chemical Production: Implications for Catalysis: Proceedings of a Workshop; The National Academies Press: Washington, D.C., 2016.Google Scholar
6Heinritz-Adrian, M.; Wenzel, S.; Youssef, F. Advanced Propane Dehydrogenation. Petroleum Technology Quarterly 2008, 13, 83– 92Google Scholar
7Im, J.; Choi, M. Physicochemical Stabilization of Pt Against Sintering for a Dehydrogenation Catalyst with High Activity, Selectivity, and Durability. ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 2819– 2826,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.6b00329 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
8Zhu, Y.; An, Z.; Song, H.; Xiang, X.; Yan, W.; He, J. Lattice-Confined Sn (IV/II) Stabilizing Raft-Like Pt Clusters: High Selectivity and Durability in Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 6973– 6978,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b02264 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
9Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. Density Functional Study of the Chemisorption of C1, C2 and C3 intermediates in Propane Dissociation on Pt(111). J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2010, 321, 42– 49,  DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2010.01.017 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
10Bariås, O. A.; Holmen, A.; Blekkan, E. A. Propane Dehydrogenation over Supported Pt and Pt-Sn Catalysts: Catalyst Preparation, Characterization, and Activity Measurements. J. Catal. 1996, 158, 1– 12,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1996.0001 [Crossref], Google Scholar
11Horiuti, I.; Polanyi, M. Exchange Reactions of Hydrogen on Metallic Catalysts. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1934, 30, 1164– 1172,  DOI: 10.1039/tf9343001164 [Crossref], Google Scholar
12Zhu, J.; Yang, M.-L.; Yu, Y.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z. J.; Zhou, X.; Holmen, A.; Chen, D. Size-Dependent Reaction Mechanism and Kinetics for Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt Catalyst. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 6310– 6319,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b01423 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
13Zha, S.; Sun, G.; Wu, T.; Zhao, J.; Zhao, Z.-J.; Gong, J. Identification of Pt-based Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation via a Probability Analysis. Chem. Sci. 2018, 9, 3925– 3931,  DOI: 10.1039/C8SC00802G [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
14Cai, W.; Mu, R.; Zha, S.; Sun, G.; Chen, S.; Zhao, Z.-J.; Li, H.; Tian, H.; Tang, Y.; Tao, F.; Zeng, L.; Gong, J. Subsurface Catalysis-Mediated Selectivity of Dehydrogenation Reaction. Sci. Adv. 2018, 4, eaar5418,  DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aar5418 [Crossref], [PubMed], Google Scholar
15Wang, T.; Jiang, F.; Liu, G.; Zeng, L.; Zhao, Z. j.; Gong, J. Effects of Ga Doping on Pt/CeO2-Al2O3 Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. AIChE J. 2016, 62, 4365– 4376,  DOI: 10.1002/aic.15339 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
16Zhao, Z.-J.; Chiu, C. -c.; Gong, J. Molecular Understandings on the Activation of Light Hydrocarbons over Heterogeneous Catalysts. Chem. Sci. 2015, 6, 4403– 4425,  DOI: 10.1039/C5SC01227A [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
17Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. DFT Study of Propane Dehydrogenation on Pt Catalyst: Effects of Step Sites. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 3257– 3267,  DOI: 10.1039/c0cp00341g [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
18Xiao, L.; Ma, F.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z.-J.; Zhou, J.-H.; Zhou, X.-G.; Chen, D.; Yuan, W.-K. Improved Selectivity and Coke Resistance of Core-Shell Alloy Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation from First Principles and Microkinetic Analysis. Chem. Eng. J. 2019, 377, 120049,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cej.2018.09.210 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
19Yang, M.-L.; Fan, C.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z.-J.; Zhou, X.-G.; Chen, D. Selective Oxidation of Hydrogen in the Presence of Propylene over Pt-Based Core-Shell Nanocatalysts. J. Phys. Chem. C 2015, 119, 21386– 21394,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b03733 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
20Lian, Z.; Ali, S.; Liu, T.; Si, C.; Li, B.; Su, D. S. Revealing the Janus Character of the Coke Precursor in the Propane Direct Dehydrogenation on Pt Catalysts from a kMC Simulation. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 4694– 4704,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b00107 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
21Saerens, S.; Sabbe, M. K.; Galvita, V. V.; Redekop, E. A.; Reyniers, M.-F.; Marin, G. B. The Positive Role of Hydrogen on the Dehydrogenation of Propane on Pt(111). ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 7495– 7508,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b01584 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
22Larsson, M.; Hultén, M.; Blekkan, E. A.; Andersson, B. The Effect of Reaction Conditions and Time on Stream on the Coke Formed during Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 1996, 164, 44– 53,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1996.0361 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
23Santhosh Kumar, M.; Chen, D.; Walmsley, J. C.; Holmen, A. Dehydrogenation of Propane over Pt-SBA-15: Effect of Pt Particle Size. Catal. Commun. 2008, 9, 747– 750,  DOI: 10.1016/j.catcom.2007.08.015 [Crossref], Google Scholar
24Redekop, E. A.; Saerens, S.; Galvita, V. V.; González, I. P.; Sabbe, M.; Bliznuk, V.; Reyniers, M.-F.; Marin, G. B. Early Stages in the Formation and Burning of Graphene on a Pt/Mg(Al)Ox Dehydrogenation Catalyst: A temperature- and Time-Resolved Study. J. Catal. 2016, 344, 482– 495,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2016.10.023 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
25Viñes, F.; Lykhach, Y.; Staudt, T.; Lorenz, M. P. A.; Papp, C.; Steinrück, H.-P.; Libuda, J.; Neyman, K. M.; Görling, A. Methane Activation by Platinum: Critical Role of Edge and Corner Sites of Metal Nanoparticles. Chem. - Eur. J. 2010, 16, 6530– 6539,  DOI: 10.1002/chem.201000296 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
26Peng, Z.; Somodi, F.; Helveg, S.; Kisielowski, C.; Specht, P.; Bell, A. T. High-Resolution in situ and ex situ TEM Studies on Graphene Formation and Growth on Pt Nanoparticles. J. Catal. 2012, 286, 22– 29,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.008 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
27Liu, Z.-P.; Hu, P. General Rules for Predicting Where a Catalytic Reaction Should Occur on Metal Surfaces: A Density Functional Theory Study of C-H and C-O Bond Breaking/Making on Flat, Stepped, and Kinked Metal Surfaces. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 1958– 1967,  DOI: 10.1021/ja0207551 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Sun, X.; Han, P.; Li, B.; Zhao, Z. Tunable Catalytic Performance of Single Pt Atom on the Doped Graphene in Direct Dehydrogenation of Propane by Rational Doping: A Density Functional Theory Study. J. Phys. Chem. C 2018, 122, 1570– 1576,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b09736 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Wei, H.; Liu, X.; Wang, A.; Zhang, L.; Qiao, B.; Yang, X.; Huang, Y.; Miao, S.; Liu, J.; Zhang, T. FeOx-Supported Platinum Single-Atom and Pseudo-Single-Atom Catalysts for Chemoselective Hydrogenation of Functionalized Nitroarenes. Nat. Commun. 2014, 5, 5634,  DOI: 10.1038/ncomms6634 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
30Wei, H.; Ren, Y.; Wang, A.; Liu, X.; Liu, X.; Zhang, L.; Miao, S.; Li, L.; Liu, J.; Wang, J.; Wang, G.; Su, D.; Zhang, T. Remarkable Effect of Alkalis on the Chemoselective Hydrogenation of Functionalized Nitroarenes over High-Loading Pt/FeOx Catalysts. Chem. Sci. 2017, 8, 5126– 5131,  DOI: 10.1039/C7SC00568G [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
31Lausche, A. C.; Medford, A. J.; Khan, T. S.; Xu, Y.; Bligaard, T.; Abild-Pedersen, F.; Nørskov, J. K.; Studt, F. On the Effect of Coverage-Dependent Adsorbate-Adsorbate Interactions for CO Methanation on Transition Metal Surfaces. J. Catal. 2013, 307, 275– 282,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2013.08.002 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
32Grabow, L. C.; Hvolbæk, B.; Nørskov, J. K. Understanding Trends in Catalytic Activity: The Effect of Adsorbate–Adsorbate Interactions for CO Oxidation over Transition Metals. Top. Catal. 2010, 53, 298– 310,  DOI: 10.1007/s11244-010-9455-2 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Zhou, M.; Liu, B. First-Principles Investigation of Adsorbate–Adsorbate Interactions on Ni(111), Ni(211), and Ni(100) Surfaces. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2017, 56, 5813– 5820,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.iecr.7b00447 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
34Kresse, G.; Hafner, J. Ab Initio Molecular Dynamics for Liquid Metals. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys. 1993, 47, 558– 561,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.47.558 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
35Kresse, G.; Furthmüller, J. Efficiency of Ab-initio Total Energy Calculations for Metals and Semiconductors Using a Plane-Wave Basis Set. Comput. Mater. Sci. 1996, 6, 15– 50,  DOI: 10.1016/0927-0256(96)00008-0 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
36Kresse, G.; Furthmüller, J. Efficient Iterative Schemes for Ab initio Total-Energy Calculations Using a Plane-Wave Basis Set. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys. 1996, 54, 11169– 11186,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.54.11169 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
37Blöchl, P. E. Projector Augmented-Wave Method. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys. 1994, 50, 17953– 17979,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.50.17953 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
38Monkhorst, H. J.; Pack, J. D. Special Points for Brillouin-Zone Integrations. Phys. Rev. B 1976, 13, 5188– 5192,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.13.5188 [Crossref], Google Scholar
39Methfessel, M.; Paxton, A. T. High-Precision Sampling for Brillouin-Zone Integration in Metals. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys. 1989, 40, 3616– 3621,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.40.3616 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
40Wellendorff, J.; Lundgaard, K. T.; Møgelhøj, A.; Petzold, V.; Landis, D. D.; Nørskov, J. K.; Bligaard, T.; Jacobsen, K. W. Density Functionals for Surface Science: Exchange-Correlation Model Development with Bayesian Error Estimation. Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys. 2012, 85, 235149,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.235149 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
41Gautier, S.; Steinmann, S. N.; Michel, C.; Fleurat-Lessard, P.; Sautet, P. Molecular Adsorption at Pt (111). How Accurate are DFT Functionals?. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2015, 17, 28921– 28930,  DOI: 10.1039/C5CP04534G [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
42Sheppard, D.; Terrell, R.; Henkelman, G. Optimization Methods for Finding Minimum Energy Paths. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 128, 134106,  DOI: 10.1063/1.2841941 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
43Henkelman, G.; Jónsson, H. A Dimer Method for Finding Saddle Points on High Dimensional Potential Surfaces Using only First Derivatives. J. Chem. Phys. 1999, 111, 7010– 7022,  DOI: 10.1063/1.480097 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
44Hansen, M. H.; Nørskov, J. K.; Bligaard, T. First Principles Micro-Kinetic Model of Catalytic Non-Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane over Close-Packed Metallic Facets. J. Catal. 2019, 374, 161– 170,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2019.03.034 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
45Cao, A.; Schumann, J.; Wang, T.; Zhang, L.; Xiao, J.; Bothra, P.; Liu, Y.; Abild-Pedersen, F.; Nørskov, J. K. Mechanistic Insights into the Synthesis of Higher Alcohols from Syngas on CuCo Alloys. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 10148– 10155,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b01596 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
46Medford, A. J.; Shi, C.; Hoffmann, M. J.; Lausche, A. C.; Fitzgibbon, S. R.; Bligaard, T.; Nørskov, J. K. CatMAP: A Software Package for Descriptor-Based Microkinetic Mapping of Catalytic Trends. Catal. Lett. 2015, 145, 794– 807,  DOI: 10.1007/s10562-015-1495-6 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
47Cramer, C. J. Essentials of Computational Chemistry: Theories and Models; John Wiley & Sons, Ltd: Chichester, England, 2004.Google Scholar
48Bahn, S. R.; Jacobsen, K. W. An Object-Oriented Scripting Interface to a Legacy Electronic Structure Code. Comput. Sci. Eng. 2002, 4, 56– 66,  DOI: 10.1109/5992.998641 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
49Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Kinetics of Heterogeneous Catalytic Reactions: Analysis of Reaction Schemes. Adv. Catal. 2001, 46, 161– 264,  DOI: 10.1016/S0360-0564(02)46023-3 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
50Shan, Y.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. Insights into the Effects of Steam on Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 3991– 4000,  DOI: 10.1039/C5CY00230C [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
51Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, J.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Sui, Z.-J.; Yu, Y.-D.; Zhou, X.-G.; Chen, D. Tuning Selectivity and Stability in Propane Dehydrogenation by Shaping Pt Particles: A Combined Experimental and DFT Study. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2014, 395, 329– 336,  DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2014.08.008 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
52Valcárcel, A.; Ricart, J. M.; Clotet, A.; Illas, F.; Markovits, A.; Minot, C. Theoretical Study of Dehydrogenation and Isomerisation Reactions of Propylene on Pt(111). J. Catal. 2006, 241, 115– 122,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2006.04.022 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
53Galvita, V.; Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Bell, A. T. Ethane Dehydrogenation on Pt/Mg(Al)O and PtSn/Mg(Al)O Catalysts. J. Catal. 2010, 271, 209– 219,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.01.016 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
54Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Galvita, V.; Bell, A. T. Catalyst Performance of Novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O Catalysts for Alkane Dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 200– 206,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
55Wu, J.; Mallikarjun Sharada, S.; Ho, C.; Hauser, A. W.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Ethane and Propane Dehydrogenation over PtIr/Mg(Al)O. Appl. Catal., A 2015, 506, 25– 32,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2015.08.029 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
56Wu, J.; Peng, Z.; Sun, P.; Bell, A. T. n-Butane Dehydrogenation over Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O. Appl. Catal., A 2014, 470, 208– 214,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2013.10.058 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
57Dumesic, J. A.; Rudd, D. F.; Aparicio, L. M.; Rekoske, J. E.; Trevino, A. A. In The Microkinetics of Heterogeneous Catalysis; ACS Professional Reference Book; American Chemical Society: Washington, D.C., 1993.Google Scholar
58Wu, P.; Yang, B. Significance of Surface Formate Coverage on the Reaction Kinetics of Methanol Synthesis from CO2 Hydrogenation over Cu. ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 7187– 7195,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b01910 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
59Ligthart, D. A. J. M.; van Santen, R. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. Influence of Particle Size on the Activity and Stability in Steam Methane Reforming of Supported Rh Nanoparticles. J. Catal. 2011, 280, 206– 220,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2011.03.015 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Van Hardeveld, R.; Hartog, F. The Statistics of Surface Atoms and Surface Sites on Metal Crystals. Surf. Sci. 1969, 15, 189– 230,  DOI: 10.1016/0039-6028(69)90148-4 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
61Nørskov, J. K.; Bligaard, T.; Rossmeisl, J.; Christensen, C. H. Towards the Computational Design of Solid Catalysts. Nat. Chem. 2009, 1, 37– 46,  DOI: 10.1038/nchem.121 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
62Yao, Z.; Guo, C.; Mao, Y.; Hu, P. Quantitative Determination of C-C Coupling Mechanisms and Detailed Analyses on the Activity and Selectivity for Fischer–Tropsch Synthesis on Co(0001): Microkinetic Modeling with Coverage Effects. ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 5957– 5973,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b01150 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
63Huš, M.; Hellman, A. Ethylene Epoxidation on Ag(100), Ag(110), and Ag(111): A Joint Ab Initio and Kinetic Monte Carlo Study and Comparison with Experiments. ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 1183– 1196,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b04512 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
64Yang, N.; Medford, A. J.; Liu, X.; Studt, F.; Bligaard, T.; Bent, S. F.; Nørskov, J. K. Intrinsic Selectivity and Structure Sensitivity of Rhodium Catalysts for C2+ Oxygenate Production. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 3705– 3714,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5b12087 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
65Nørskov, J. K.; Studt, F.; Abild-Pedersen, F.; Bligaard, T. Fundamental Concepts in Heterogeneous Catalysis; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, 2014.[Crossref], Google Scholar
66Nørskov, J. K.; Bligaard, T.; Kleis, J. Rate Control and Reaction Engineering. Science 2009, 324, 1655– 1656,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1174885 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
67Stegelmann, C.; Andreasen, A.; Campbell, C. T. Degree of Rate Control: How Much the Energies of Intermediates and Transition States Control Rates. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 8077– 8082,  DOI: 10.1021/ja9000097 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
68Campbell, C. T. The Degree of Rate Control: A Powerful Tool for Catalysis Research. ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 2770– 2779,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.7b00115 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
2
Mentioning
25
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 34 publications.
Ming-Lei Sun, Zhong-Pan Hu, Hao-Yu Wang, Yu-Jun Suo, Zhong-Yong Yuan. Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4719-4741. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00103
Yilang Liu, Xue Zong, Abhirup Patra, Stavros Caratzoulas, Dionisios G. Vlachos. Propane Dehydrogenation on PtxSny (x, y ≤ 4) Clusters on Al2O3(110). ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (5) , 2802-2812. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05671
Yi Liu, Guanghui Zhang, Shida Liu, Jie Zhu, Jiaxu Liu, Jianyang Wang, Rongtan Li, Mingrui Wang, Qiang Fu, Shuandi Hou, Chunshan Song, Xinwen Guo. Promoting n-Butane Dehydrogenation over PtMn/SiO2 through Structural Evolution Induced by a Reverse Water-Gas Shift Reaction. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (21) , 13506-13512. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04471
Guang-Di Wang, Jia-Wei Jiang, Zhi-Jun Sui, Yi-An Zhu, Xing-Gui Zhou. Kinetic Promotion Effect of Hydrogen and Dimethyl Disulfide Addition on Propane Dehydrogenation over the Pt–Sn–K/Al2O3 Catalyst. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (35) , 30773-30781. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c01729
Yu-Ling Shan, Huai-Lu Sun, Shi-Lei Zhao, Pei-Long Tang, Wen-Ting Zhao, Jun-Wei Ding, Wen-Long Yu, Li-Na Li, Xiang Feng, De Chen. Effects of Support and CO2 on the Performances of Vanadium Oxide-Based Catalysts in Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5736-5749. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00878
Mi Peng, Zhimin Jia, Zirui Gao, Ming Xu, Danyang Cheng, Meng Wang, Chengyu Li, Linlin Wang, Xiangbin Cai, Zheng Jiang, Hong Jiang, Ning Wang, Dequan Xiao, Hongyang Liu, Ding Ma. Antisintering Pd1 Catalyst for Propane Direct Dehydrogenation with In Situ Active Sites Regeneration Ability. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (4) , 2244-2252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05590
Charles Fricke, Biplab Rajbanshi, Eric A. Walker, Gabriel Terejanu, Andreas Heyden. Propane Dehydrogenation on Platinum Catalysts: Identifying the Active Sites through Bayesian Analysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (4) , 2487-2498. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04844
Verena Streibel, Hassan A. Aljama, An-Chih Yang, Tej S. Choksi, Roel S. Sánchez-Carrera, Ansgar Schäfer, Yuejin Li, Matteo Cargnello, Frank Abild-Pedersen. Microkinetic Modeling of Propene Combustion on a Stepped, Metallic Palladium Surface and the Importance of Oxygen Coverage. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (3) , 1742-1757. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03699
Ranga Rohit Seemakurthi, Griffin Canning, Zhenwei Wu, Jeffrey T. Miller, Abhaya K. Datye, Jeffrey Greeley. Identification of a Selectivity Descriptor for Propane Dehydrogenation through Density Functional and Microkinetic Analysis on Pure Pd and Pd Alloys. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (15) , 9588-9604. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c01916
Zan Lian, Chaowei Si, Faheem Jan, ShuaiKe Zhi, Bo Li. Coke Deposition on Pt-Based Catalysts in Propane Direct Dehydrogenation: Kinetics, Suppression, and Elimination. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (15) , 9279-9292. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c00331
Li-Jun Jing, Wei-Qi Yan, Han-Jie Xiao, Ming Lei, Yue-Qiang Cao, Zhi-Jun Sui, Jing-Hong Zhou, Xing-Gui Zhou, De Chen, Yi-An Zhu. Interface-enhanced catalytic performance of TiO2-supported Cu and Au for dimethyl oxalate hydrogenation: A comparative microkinetic analysis. Chemical Engineering Science 2023, 281 , 119176. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2023.119176
Huayu Gu, Jintong Lan, Haolu Hu, Falong Jia, Zhihui Ai, Lizhi Zhang, Xiao Liu. Surface oxygen vacancy-dependent molecular oxygen activation for propane combustion over α-MnO2. Journal of Hazardous Materials 2023, 460 , 132499. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132499
Huai-lu SUN, Kai-xin LI, Wen-long YU, Jun-wei DING, Yu-ling SHAN. The performances and structure evolution of Pt-based catalysts for selective hydrogen combustion under propene-rich conditions. Journal of Fuel Chemistry and Technology 2023, 51 (5) , 616-624. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-5813(23)60336-6
Seokhyun Choung, Yoonho Kim, Jinuk Moon, Jangeon Roh, Jinwoo Hwang, Jeong Woo Han. Unveiling the catalyst deactivation mechanism in the non-oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes on Rh(111): Density functional theory and kinetic Monte Carlo study. Catalysis Today 2023, 411-412 , 113819. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2022.06.034
Fushan Feng, Haiyuan Zhang, Shaoqi Chu, Qinqin Zhang, Chao Wang, Guangjian Wang, Fang Wang, Liancheng Bing, Dezhi Han. Recent progress on the traditional and emerging catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry 2023, 118 , 1-18. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2022.11.001
Yingke Yang, Ruru Song, Xing Fan, Yunxia Liu, Ningning Kong, Haiping Lin, Youyong Li. A mechanistic study of selective propane dehydrogenations on MoS2 supported single Fe atoms. Chinese Chemical Letters 2023, 34 (2) , 107257. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2022.02.062
Hongliu Wan, Nengfeng Gong, Lichen Liu. Solid catalysts for the dehydrogenation of long-chain alkanes: lessons from the dehydrogenation of light alkanes and homogeneous molecular catalysis. Science China Chemistry 2022, 65 (11) , 2163-2176. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-022-1415-x
Yingke Yang, Jiawen Wang, Haiping Lin, Huilong Dong, Youyong Li. On-purpose design of dual active sites in single V atom anchored C 2 N nanosheets for propane dehydrogenation catalysis. Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers 2022, 9 (21) , 5517-5526. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI01463G
Rui Zhang, Qing-Yu Chang, Fang Ma, Muhammad Zeeshan, Ming-Lei Yang, Zhi-Jun Sui, De Chen, Xing-Gui Zhou, Yi-An Zhu. Enhanced catalytic performance of transition metal-doped Cr2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation: A microkinetic modeling study. Chemical Engineering Journal 2022, 446 , 136913. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.136913
Sajjad Rimaz, Maryam Sabbaghan, Mohammadreza Kosari, Mehrdad Zarinejad, Mohammad Amini. Anti-sintering MgAl2O4 supported Pt-Ge nanoparticles for propane dehydrogenation: Catalytic insights and machine-learning aided performance analysis. Molecular Catalysis 2022, 531 , 112695. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112695
Rui-Jia Zhou, Wei-Qi Yan, Yue-Qiang Cao, Jing-Hong Zhou, Zhi-Jun Sui, Wei Li, De Chen, Xing-Gui Zhou, Yi-An Zhu. Probing the structure sensitivity of dimethyl oxalate partial hydrogenation over Ag nanoparticles: A combined experimental and microkinetic study. Chemical Engineering Science 2022, 259 , 117830. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2022.117830
Evgeniy A. Redekop, Hilde Poelman, Matthias Filez, Ranjith K. Ramachandran, Jolien Dendooven, Christophe Detavernier, Guy B. Marin, Unni Olsbye, Vladimir V. Galvita. Aligning time-resolved kinetics (TAP) and surface spectroscopy (AP-XPS) for a more comprehensive understanding of ALD-derived 2D and 3D model catalysts. Faraday Discussions 2022, 236 , 485-509. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1FD00120E
Li Deng, Shaobo Han, Yong Li, Wenjie Shen. Subnanometric Pt‐Sn Monolayers Over a Rod‐Shaped Al 2 O 3 for Propane Dehydrogenation. ChemCatChem 2022, 14 (15) https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202200400
Sajjad Rimaz, Mohammadreza Kosari, Luwei Chen, Shibo Xi, Antonio Monzón, Sibudjing Kawi, Armando Borgna. Insights into catalyst structure, kinetics and reaction mechanism during propane dehydrogenation on Pt-Ge bimetallic catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 2022, 643 , 118751. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2022.118751
Yupeng Du, Yanxiao Wang, Chengtao Zhang, Rongzhao Li, Bo Wang, Shuo Li, Chaohe Yang. Theoretical and experimental investigations into light alkane dehydrogenation over chromium-containing catalyst. Fuel 2022, 320 , 123893. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2022.123893
Weiyu Song, Yikun Kang, Min Yang, Zhi Li, Lulu Chen, Zhen Zhao, Jian Liu. Promoting propane dehydrogenation via strain engineering on iridium single-atom catalyst. Fuel 2022, 311 , 122580. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2021.122580
Jie Yang, Erlend Bjørgum, Hui Chang, Ka-Ke Zhu, Zhi-Jun Sui, Xing-Gui Zhou, Anders Holmen, Yi-An Zhu, De Chen. On the ensemble requirement of fully selective chemical looping methane partial oxidation over La-Fe-based perovskites. Applied Catalysis B: Environmental 2022, 301 , 120788. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120788
Aaron Sattler, Michele Paccagnini, Lichen Liu, Elaine Gomez, Henry Klutse, Allen W. Burton, Avelino Corma. Assessment of metal-metal interactions and catalytic behavior in platinum-tin bimetallic subnanometric clusters by using reactive characterizations. Journal of Catalysis 2021, 404 , 393-399. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2021.10.006
Ling Xiao, Ping Hu, Zhi-Jun Sui, De Chen, Xing-Gui Zhou, Wei-Kang Yuan, Yi-An Zhu. Rational design of intermetallic compound catalysts for propane dehydrogenation from a descriptor-based microkinetic analysis. Journal of Catalysis 2021, 404 , 32-45. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.008
Bohan Feng, Yue-Chang Wei, Wei-Yu Song, Chun-Ming Xu. A review on the structure-performance relationship of the catalysts during propane dehydrogenation reaction. Petroleum Science 2021, 10 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petsci.2021.09.015
Lichen Liu, Avelino Corma. Isolated metal atoms and clusters for alkane activation: Translating knowledge from enzymatic and homogeneous to heterogeneous systems. Chem 2021, 7 (9) , 2347-2384. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2021.04.001
Jun Ke, Yang-Dong Wang, Chuan-Ming Wang. First-principles microkinetic simulations revealing the scaling relations and structure sensitivity of CO 2 hydrogenation to C 1 & C 2 oxygenates on Pd surfaces. Catalysis Science & Technology 2021, 11 (14) , 4866-4881. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CY00700A
Son Dong, Natalie R. Altvater, Lesli O. Mark, Ive Hermans. Assessment and comparison of ordered & non-ordered supported metal oxide catalysts for upgrading propane to propylene. Applied Catalysis A: General 2021, 617 , 118121. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2021.118121
Yalan Wang, Ping Hu, Jia Yang, Yi-An Zhu, De Chen. C–H bond activation in light alkanes: a theoretical perspective. Chemical Society Reviews 2021, 50 (7) , 4299-4358. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS01262A
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Reaction Network for PDHa
aAll elementary steps are considered reversible.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (Top) Gibbs free energy barriers (at 723.15 K) for the dehydrogenation and cracking of the C3 species in PDH over (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211). (Bottom) Optimized geometries of the transition states for propane (TS1 and TS2), 1-propyl (TS3 and TS4), and 2-propyl (TS5 and TS6) dehydrogenation. Elementary steps are defined in Scheme 1 and Table S1. The Pt atoms located below the outermost layer are colored yellow.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Activation energies (Eact,f) for the 2-propyl dehydrogenation to propylene and 2-propylidene via r5 and r6, respectively, over Pt(211), as calculated using different exchange-correlation functionals. (b) Two different transition states for the CH3CCH* dehydrogenation (TS18) over Pt(211), as obtained by both the BEEF-vdW and PBE functionals.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Plots of TOFs for propane consumption and propylene production as well as propylene selectivities over 5 nm Pt nanoparticles obtained (a) in experiment and from the microkinetic analysis (b) without and (c) with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic representations of active sites on (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211). On Pt(111), adsorbates occupying the sites labeled with “t” refer to adsorption at the terrace sites. On Pt(211), adsorbates occupying the sites labeled with “s” and “f” refer to adsorption at the step and 4-fold hollow sites, respectively.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Surface coverages of species at the “t”, “s”, and “f” sites obtained from the microkinetic model (a) without and (b) with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions at 723.15 K, 0.03 bar of propane, and H2/C3H8 = 0.03.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Adsorption configurations of CH_t, CH_s, and CHC_f at different coverages and the corresponding coverage-dependent differential adsorption energies. The points represent the energies computed using DFT calculations, and the solid lines represent the energies obtained from the second-order adsorbate–adsorbate interaction model. (b) Adsorption configurations of CH_s at CHC_f coverages of 0, 0.33, and 0.67 ML.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Plots of TOFs for propane consumption and propylene production as well as propylene selectivities over Pt(111) and Pt(211) obtained from the microkinetic analysis with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane. (b) Apparent activation energy for the propane consumption over Pt(111) and Pt(211). (c–e) Coverages of free sites and abundant reaction intermediates on Pt(111) and Pt(211. (f–g) Gibbs free energy barriers and TOFs for propane activation (r1 and r2) and CH3CC_f formation and cracking (r17, r18, and r50) reactions on Pt(211) obtained from the microkinetic analysis without (dashed line) and with (solid line) adsorbate–adsorbate interactions.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Flux analysis of PDH under experimental reactor inlet conditions (723.15 K, 0.03 bar of propane, and 0.04 bar of hydrogen) over (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211) with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions considered. The arrows, which are labeled with the percentage of the total reaction flux, indicate the direction the reversible elementary steps actually proceed. The percentage of the reaction flux was calculated as the absolute value of the net rate for that elementary step divided by the rate for propane consumption.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Simplified Reaction Network for PDH over Pt(111) and Pt(211)
Figure 9
Figure 9. Forward and reverse reaction rates of elementary steps obtained from the microkinetic model with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane for H2/C3H8 ratios of 0.03, 1.33, and 6.00 as well as the percentage of the reaction flux for elementary steps as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio over (a) Pt(111) and (b) Pt(211).
Figure 10
Figure 10. Plots of (a) the degree of rate control (DRC) for propane consumption and (b) the degree of selectivity control (DSC) for propylene production obtained from the microkinetic analysis with adsorbate–adsorbate interactions over Pt(211) as a function of the H2/C3H8 ratio at 723.15 K and 0.03 bar of propane.

</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
