I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Propane Dehydrogenation on PtxSny (x, y  4) Clusters on Al2O3(110)
Abstract
With increasing interest in atomically dispersed and sub-nanometer Pt and PtSn cluster catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), understanding structureproperty relationships is of great importance. In this work, we present density functional theory calculations and microkinetic modeling of PDH on eight alumina-supported Ptx (x = 14) and PtxSny (x = 13, y = 1 and x = 2, y = 2) model catalysts and elucidate the effects of Pt nuclearity and Sn heteroatoms. Ptx clusters are prone to sintering, and their stability is improved with the addition of Sn. The Ptx activity changes nonmonotonically with cluster size. Pt1 presents the most favorable dehydrogenation barriers, but its PDH rate is highly limited by the blocking of sites by hydrogen. A volcano-like activitynuclearity relation is found, with Pt2 being the most active cluster. An increase in Pt nuclearity beyond x = 2 leads to lower rates due to increased dehydrogenation barriers. Moderate addition of Sn somewhat depresses the Pt activity, whereas PtxSny clusters with a Pt/Sn ratio of 1:1 become inactive. The Pt3Sn1 cluster exhibits good activity with improved stability compared to Pt3 and Pt2 and could be an experimental target. While Sn promotes propylene desorption, propane hydrogenolysis to C1 and C2 species on single atoms and small Ptx and PtxSny clusters is unfavorable. Low selectivity to propylene seen experimentally should instead stem from other routes.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:single atoms sub-nanometer catalysis density functional theory microkinetic modeling selectivity stability activity
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Alumina-supported PtSn catalysts are commercially used for propane (C3H8) dehydrogenation (PDH) to propylene (C3H6). (1,2) To improve selectivity and stability, PtSn tuned particle sizes have been synthesized on various supports. (39) Theoretical and experimental studies have been performed to understand the electronic and structural properties of PtSn and its catalytic properties, such as activity, selectivity, and coke formation. (1014)
The mechanism of PDH on Pt(111) and Pt(211) (10,15,16) and its CC cracking on Pt(111) have been studied using density functional theory (DFT) calculations and microkinetic modeling (MKM). (17) DFT studies on crystalline Pt3Sn1, Pt2Sn1, and Pt1Sn2 extended surfaces (10) have suggested that Sn slows down the C3H8 CH activation and facilitates C3H6 desorption. The presence of Sn in PtSn bimetallic catalysts reduces the number of nearest-neighbor Pt pairs on which cracking occurs. Furthermore, charge transfer from Sn to Pt lowers the Pt d-band and thus weakens binding. (10,1821) DFT studies of small PtSn clusters on SiO2 and Al2O3 supports have shown that Sn promotes cluster stability because of the strong PtSn interactions, as well as the facile desorption of the olefin that minimizes CC scission and coking. (13,14,22)
Prior simulations have provided valuable insights into the structure and electronic properties of PtSn alloys. However, the connection between the catalytic properties and structure of supported sub-nanometer PtSn clusters remains unclear. The mechanistic insights of PDH on extended PtSn surfaces may not hold for sub-nanometer clusters such as Pt single atoms and few atom PtSn clusters. It has recently emerged that PtSn sub-nanometer clusters have superior PDH performance, including high activity and selectivity and good stability. (3,8,9,13,14,2225)
For example, Zhang et al. have synthesized alumina-supported Pt catalysts ranging from highly dispersed single atoms to sub-nanometer clusters to nanoparticles, among which the atomically dispersed Pt showed the highest activity, selectivity, and stability for propane conversion. (9) Gorey et al., (13) Zandkarimi et al., (14) and Li et al. (22) have studied sub-nanometer Pt cluster models composed of 4 and 7 atoms on silica and alumina supports for dehydrogenation reactions. (13,14,22) In their work, temperature-programmed desorption of ethylene and DFT calculations of ethylene desorption suggested weaker alkene binding to Pt in the presence of Sn. However, the effect of Sn on the activity and selectivity is unclear without a full kinetic simulation of the dehydrogenation reaction. Sub-nanometer Pt and PtSn cluster catalysts have also been synthesized on other supports, such as silica, zeolites, and graphene, and been tested for the dehydrogenation of alkanes. (3,8,9,2326)
Considering the tremendous interest in atomically dispersed and sub-nanometer metallic catalysts on oxide supports as described above, our work aims to advance structureproperty relationships. Here, we probe the role of nuclearity and of Sn in the stability of alumina-supported PtSn clusters and in their PDH activity and selectivity. Alumina is selected as the support because of its well-defined structure, thermal stability, and extensive usages in industry. To that end, we undertook a comprehensive investigation of PDH on PtxSny (x, y  4) clusters on γ-Al2O3(110) and developed BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relationships.
2. Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. γ-Alumina Surface Model
Supported PtSn clusters were studied on the γ-alumina(110) surface, which is the most abundantly exposed facet. (27) Al2O3(110) was represented by 1 × 2 and 2 × 2 models with four atomic layers where the bottom layer is fixed in all calculations. The size of the 1 × 2 model was 8.32 × 16.02 × 20 Å3, including 15 Å vacuum space reserved for PtSn clusters and C3H8 reactions on the surface. For the 2 × 2 slab model, the size along the x axis is 16.64 Å and other parameters are identical.
2.2. DFT Calculations
Periodic DFT calculations were performed in the Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP), (28,29) using plane-wave basis sets with an energy cutoff of 400 eV. Interactions of valence and core electrons were modeled using the projected augmented wave method. (30) The vdW-DF2 functional, a generalized gradient approximation-based exchangecorrelation functional that includes empirical van der Waals corrections, was employed. (31,32) All calculations were spin polarized.
For calculations of reaction mechanisms, the Brillouin zone was sampled on 4 × 2 × 1 and 2 × 2 × 1 MonkhorstPack k-point meshes (33) for the 1 × 2 and 2 × 2 models, respectively. Gaussian smearing with a width of 0.1 eV was used. The electronic structure was converged until the energy difference between two self-consistent field iterations was lower than 107 eV. The geometry optimization convergence criterion was set at 0.02 eV for all structures of intermediates and transition states. Transition states were searched using the nudged elastic band method (34) for approximate structures and then fully optimized using the dimer method. (35)
2.3. Microkinetic Modeling
The PDH process was simulated using a plug flow reactor at 848 K. (9) The catalyst density was calculated using the dimensions of the alumina-supported PtxSny model. The flow rate and catalyst volume were adjusted for conversion. Detailed MKM information is shown in Table S6. All kinetic parameters were obtained using the Python Multiscale Thermochemistry Toolbox (pMuTT) (36) within the harmonic oscillator approximation. The MKM was performed using the CHEMKIN package. (37)
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Geometric Structures of Ptx and Sny
The optimized geometries of all γ-alumina-supported PtxSny cluster models are shown in Figure 1. Salient observations pertaining to geometry are as follows: the addition of Sn to Pt1, Pt2, and Pt3 results in an elongation of PtPt bonds, breaking of PtO bonds, and formation of PtSn and SnO bonds. When two Sn atoms are added to Pt2, the most stable Pt2Sn2 structure has four PtSn bonds, all less than 3 Å long. The Pt bonds have the same length as in bulk Pt; the PtSn bond lengths are close to those in bulk PtSn and Pt3Sn. (38)
Figure 1
Figure 1. Optimized PtxSny cluster models on γ-Al2O3(110). (a) Pt1, (b) Pt2, (c) Pt3, (d) Pt4, (e) Pt1Sn1, (f) Pt2Sn1, (g) Pt3Sn1, and (h) Pt2Sn2. Pt and Sn atoms are represented by gray and purple balls, respectively. The surface layer Al and O atoms are represented by blue and red balls, respectively; all sublayer Al and O atoms are not shown. The bonds between Pt and Sn atoms are marked with gold lines, and the bond lengths are in Å.
All eight clusters are coordinated in the vicinity of the tri-coordinated Al site (AlIII), its nearby AlIV site, and four oxygen atoms (labeled O1, O2, O3, and O4 in Figure 1a). The Pt monomer (Pt1) preferentially binds with AlIII and O1 (Figure 1a). In the Pt dimer (Pt2), one Pt binds with AlIII and O3 and the other Pt binds with O1 and O2, and the bond length of the two Pt atoms is 2.50 Å (Figure 1b). To form the Pt trimer (Pt3) from the Pt dimer, the third Pt binds with the lower two oxygens while the position of the other two Pt atoms is the same as in the dimer (Figure 1c). In the tetramer (Pt4) cluster, the fourth Pt atom binds with two Pt atoms and AlIV, forming a quadrilateral structure instead of a pyramid structure (Figure 1d) previously reported; the Pt1, Pt2, and Pt3 structures are consistent with previous work. (39) When a Sn atom is added to Pt1, forming Pt1Sn1, Sn binds with the surface atoms O1 and O2, with the SnO bonds being 2.62 Å long (Figure 1e). Addition of one Sn atom to Pt2 forms Pt2Sn1, in which Sn bonds with O1 and O2 (bond lengths 2.30 and 2.55 Å) and two Pt atoms (bond lengths 2.85 and 2.71 Å) (Figure 1f). Similarly, in Pt3Sn1, Sn binds to O1 and O2 and Pt (Figure 1g). When two Sn atoms are added to Pt2, the most stable structure has four PtSn bonds, and all lengths are smaller than 3 Å (Figure 1h). The PtPt bond lengths in Pt and PtSn clusters are similar to the bond lengths in crystalline Pt, whose PtPt distance is 2.79 Å. (40) The strong SnO bonds are consistent with the experimentally observed strong binding of PtSn nanoparticles with alumina, with Sn residing at the Ptsupport interface forming species. (2,41)
The coordination geometries of Pt are a triangular or quadrangular pyramid for different PtxSny clusters with a Pt atom at the apex of the pyramid. For example, in Pt1, the Pt atom is coordinated with O1, O2, AlIII, and AlIV, and this Pt is above the plane composed of these four O and Al atoms, leading to a quadrangular pyramid geometry with Pt at the apex. A similar planar geometry is also found for the Pt coordination geometry for other clusters.
3.2. Ptx and PtxSny Stability
The structural stability of these clusters was assessed using the binding energy per Pt atom, ΔbEPtx, of Ptx to the support with respect to the gas phase (eq 1): (42,43)
Δ
b
P
t
=

Pt(g)
+
Sn
/
Al
2
O
3

Pt
Sn
/
Al
2
O
3
E
E
E
(1)
In eq 1, EPt(g) is the energy of a Pt atom in the gas phase; ESny/Al2O3 is the optimized energy of the support with y Sn atoms on its surface; and EPtxSny/Al2O3 is the optimized energy of the PtxSny cluster on the support. A positive ΔbEPtx value indicates favorable binding. The ΔbEPtx values are provided in Figure 2 as a function of the Pt cluster size. For a sense of scale, we note a metallic Pt cohesion energy of 5.84 eV/atom. (44) In the absence of Sn from the alumina surface, ΔbEPtx increases with increasing Ptx size (x > 2) and ranges from 2.19 eV for x = 1 to 3.32 eV for x = 4 because of the attractive interactions between the Pt atoms. The increase in ΔbEPtx from Pt2 to Pt4 is consistent with former reports on Pt clusters on surfaces of hydrated Al2O3(110), Al2O3(110) with chlorine, and dehydrated Al2O3(100). (45) Addition of Sn to Ptx stabilizes Pt on the surface and the stabilization is especially prominent for a Pt/Sn ratio of 1:1; such clusters have ΔbEPtx in the range of 5 eV, namely, close to the Pt atom cohesion energy in bulk Pt. The larger ΔbEPtx values in the presence of Sn indicate that PtxSny formation is an exothermic process and is consistent with the negative enthalpy of formation of bulk PtSn from calorimetric experiments. (46) Similar stabilization effect of Sn on Pt clusters was also demonstrated for Pt4Sn3 clusters on silica and alumina. (14,22) However, the stabilization effect of a single Sn atom on Ptx diminishes with increasing Pt nuclearity.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Binding energies per Pt atom of Ptx and PtxSny clusters as a function of Pt content.
The stabilizing effect of Sn can be attributed to the strong PtSn interaction, which seems to stave off aggregation of Pt4Sn3 clusters on alumina. (13,14,22) Such PtSn interaction also stabilizes the surface Pt of PtSn nanoparticles on silica, as shown by the favorable formation of a Pt3Sn1 alloy surface from a Pt-enriched layer which undergoes structural evolution under reaction conditions for PDH. (11) The formation of Pt3Sn1 alloy was also observed for PtSn nanoparticles on alumina with catalyst regeneration conducted with H2 reduction. (47)
Table 1 lists Pt association free energies for different PtxSny clusters. The association of small Ptx clusters to larger ones is energetically favorable. It is also favorable for Ptx clusters to bind with smaller PtxSn1 clusters and form larger PtxSn1 ones due to PtSn interactions, although the aggregation energies are less negative than the corresponding sintering values of Ptx clusters. The tendency for Pt to sinter is the result of the moderate interactions of Pt with the alumina support. These forces are not strong enough to stave off Pt sintering as for example observed for ceria-supported silver nanoparticles. (48,49) On the other hand, the data in Table 1 show that sintering of Pt1Sn1 to a larger Pt2Sn2 cluster is endothermic, which suggests that increasing the Sn content promotes Pt1Sn1 dispersion on alumina. The latter should be attributed to the exothermic formation of Pt1Sn1 which slows down sintering as suggested by Campbells model, according to which increased heat of cluster formation on the support results in long term stability. (50,51)
Table 1. Pt Association Free Energies (848 K) for PtxSny Clusters
reaction free energy (eV)
Pt1 + Pt1 = Pt2 1.52
Pt1 + Pt2 = Pt3 1.13
Pt1 + Pt3 = Pt4 1.75
Pt2 + Pt2 = Pt4 1.36
Pt1Sn1 + Pt1 = Pt2Sn1 1.22
Pt1Sn1 + Pt2 = Pt3Sn1 0.78
Pt2Sn1 + Pt1 = Pt3Sn1 1.13
Pt1Sn1 + Pt1Sn1 = Pt2Sn2 0.25
3.3. Reaction Mechanisms
Usually, PDH mechanistic studies are limited to a skeleton reaction network involving propane adsorption, two dehydrogenations, and product (propylene and hydrogen) desorption. (10,52) Such a skeleton network does not consider deeper dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis paths. Scheme 1 presents pathways for the skeleton PDH network to C3H6. We augment it with C3H6 dehydrogenation to C3H4; CC cleavage in C3H6 to CH2* and CHCH3*; and CC cleavage in C3H4 to CH* and CCH3* surface species. Hydrogenation of CH* and CH2* yields CH4, and that of CCH3* and CHCH3* yields C2H6. The species undergoing CC bond scission have been selected for DFT calculations based on prior work where extensively dehydrogenated species undergo faster CC bond scission. (17,53,54) We studied these reactions for all PtxSny clusters using DFT and MKM. A more comprehensive reaction network than that in Scheme 1 was considered below for Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Reaction Pathways of (a) C3H8 Dehydrogenation, (b) C3H6 Dehydrogenation, (c) C3H6 CC Cleavage, and (d) C3H4 CC Cleavage
3.3.1. C3H8 Dehydrogenation to C3H6
Figure 3 presents the free energy profiles for C3H8 dehydrogenation to C3H6 on Ptx (x = 14), Pt1Sny (y = 0, 1), Pt2Sny (y = 02), and Pt3Sny (y = 0, 1). As shown in Figure 3a, both the CH activation and the ensuing β-H elimination face increasingly higher barriers with increasing Ptx cluster size. On Pt1 and Pt2, we see stable surface catalyst states, with formation energies of 1.01 and 0.57 eV, that could be responsible for high surface coverages and, thus, few available Pt-free sites for reaction. Strong adsorption is less likely on Pt3 and Pt4. Sn increases the barriers for CH activation and β-H elimination on Pt1 from 0.55 to 2.76 eV and from 0.51 to 2.75 eV, respectively, in essence rendering Pt of Pt1Sn1 rather inactive. Similarly, adding Sn to Pt2 increases the dehydrogenation barriers. From Pt2 to Pt2Sn1 and Pt2Sn2, the two dehydrogenation barriers increase from 1.08 to 2.24 and 2.61 eV and from 0.62 to 2.41 and 3.08 eV, respectively. While Pt2Sn2 is rather inactive, Pt2Sn1 may exhibit some activity because of a moderate 2.41 eV barrier. It is also worth noting that on Pt2Sn1, a stable surface state (Ptx2H*) with a formation energy of 0.57 eV is also found, potentially leading to a high probability of observing this state. Addition of Sn to Pt3 increases the first dehydrogenation barrier from 1.59 to 1.97 eV. The pattern that transpires is that the effect of a single Sn atom on increasing the activation energy is diminished as the size of Ptx grows. Overall, one expects the activity of the PtxSny clusters to decrease in the order Pt1 > Pt1Sn1, Pt2 > Pt2Sn1 > Pt2Sn2, and Pt3 > Pt3Sn1. The decreased activity of Pt with adding Sn is consistent with the prior literature on PDH on both extended PtSn surfaces and small PtSn clusters. (10,22)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Free energy profiles of C3H8 dehydrogenation to C3H6 at 848 K on (a) Pt1, Pt2, Pt3, Pt4, (b) Pt1 and Pt1Sn1, (c) Pt2, Pt2Sn1, and Pt2Sn2, and (d) Pt3, Pt3Sn1 (energies referenced to isolated gas-phase reactants). After C3H6 desorption, on Pt1, Pt1Sn1, Pt2Sn1, and Pt2Sn2, the Ptx2H* species first converts to another Ptx2H* species, labeled (2), and then H2 recombination ensues. For Pt2Sn1 and Pt3Sn1, the CH3CH2CH2Ptx* species formed from the first dehydrogenation via TS1 at a Pt atom undergoes migration to another Pt atom via TS1 (2), forming more stable CH3CH2CH2Ptx* species labeled (2).
Most prior work has focused on DFT calculations of the skeleton reaction network on extended surfaces but has not provided microkinetic analysis. (10,52)Figure 4 shows the dehydrogenation activation free energies and microkinetic PDH turnover frequencies (TOFs) as a function of Ptx cluster size for all PtxSny cluster models. The first CH activation barrier increases monotonically with cluster size for single metal Pt. Pt1 appears very active, Pt2 moderately so, and Pt3 and Pt4 are significantly less active (Figure 4a). The second CH activation barrier (β-H elimination) exhibits a qualitatively similar trend to the first. The addition of Sn makes the free energy barriers of both dehydrogenations on Pt1 very high. On the other hand, for high Pt/Sn ratios (3:1), the dehydrogenation barriers are reduced.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Activation energies of (a) CH activation and (b) β-H elimination of PDH on PtxSny clusters as a function of Pt content. Activation energies are free energies at 848 K referenced to isolated gas-phase reactants. (c) Microkinetic turnover frequency (TOF) for the C3H8 dehydrogenation to C3H6 as a function of Pt content in PtxSny clusters. Conversions of Pt1, Pt2, Pt3, Pt4, Pt2Sn1, and Pt3Sn1 are at 3%; conversions of Pt1Sn1 and Pt2Sn2 are 0.14 and 0.01%, respectively, due to their extremely low reactivity. Operating conditions: T = 848 K, P = 1 atm, 5% propane feed, and 95% He feed.
Interestingly, the PDH TOF is very sensitive to the cluster size; it varies by nearly five orders of magnitude over the range of nuclearity values x = 14. The TOF trend with nuclearity differs from that with the energy barriers. A volcano-type picture emerges showing that Pt2 is very active and Pt3 is roughly an order of magnitude less so, whereas by comparison Pt1 and Pt4 are significantly less active, by about 5 orders of magnitude relative to Pt2. Pt2 presents the highest TOF as it strikes a balance between low activation barriers, the strength of binding of intermediates (Figure 5a), and facile H2 recombination and desorption (Figure 5b), efficiently turning intermediates over to gas products. The TOF decreases with increasing cluster size (Pt3 and Pt4) because of the higher reaction barriers and the poor stabilization of intermediates. For comparison purposes, we note that the PDH TOF on Pt1/Al2O3 (9.35 × 102 s1) is 23 orders of magnitude larger than those simulated for Pt-doped Ga2O3 (1.78 × 104 s1), ZnO (2.52 × 104 s1), and Cr2O3 (6.28 × 105 s1). (55,56) The decrease in TOF for Ptx (x = 24) is in line with the experimentally reported trend (at the same temperature) that the TOF decreases with increasing Pt cluster size on alumina. (9,57) When one Sn atom is introduced into Ptx (x = 13), the TOF decreases by several orders of magnitude. With more Sn, the activity further decreases, as shown by the TOFs of Pt2Sn1 and Pt2Sn2. The trend of decreasing activity with Sn content is consistent with the increased barriers shown in Figure 3.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Free energies of (a) C3H62H-Pt*, (b) 2H-Pt*, and (c) most stable state along the reaction coordinate of PDH on Ptx and PtxSny clusters as a function of Pt content. Energies referenced to isolated gas-phase reactants (Figures 2 and 3). C3H62H-Pt* is the most stable state on Pt2 and Pt4. For all other clusters, 2H-Pt* is the most stable state.
As shown in Figure 5c, increasing the Ptx cluster size leads to less stable adsorbed species. Addition of Sn generally makes adsorption on Pt less favorable, as reflected in Pt1Sn1, Pt2Sn2, and Pt3Sn1, where the energies of the surface states are all around or above 0. This indicates that the surface should not be significantly covered by adsorbed species. Only on Pt2Sn1 do we see strong binding of both hydrogen (2H-Pt* species resulting after propene desorption) and of the ethylenehydrogen complex (C3H62H-Pt*). Stable species can limit the number of Pt sites available for propane activation. The combined effect of activation barriers and site coverages on activity is quantitatively analyzed next.
Figure 6 shows the coverages of major surface states on Ptx and PtxSny clusters. We see the hydrogen coverage of Pt1 is over 99.9%, which is essentially the reason Pt1 is so much less active than Pt2 even though it presents the lowest dehydrogenation barriers among all the clusters tested here. On Pt2, there are about 2% empty Pt sites available for propane activation. The moderate amount of available Pt sites and small dehydrogenation barriers contribute to its high activity. The surface of Pt2Sn1 is progressively covered by H atoms along the reactor, leading to low TOF when conversion is around 3%. All other clusters have mainly empty Pt sites. Their low activity results from their weak binding and/or large barriers. Significant surface coverages were observed for Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1, which have stable adsorbed species, such as C3H62H-Pt* or 2H-Pt*, as shown in Figure 5.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Coverages of empty Pt sites (black) and other major states (blue) as a function of C3H8 conversion for PDH on (a) Pt1, (b) Pt2, (c) Pt3, (d) Pt4, (e) Pt1Sn1, (f) Pt2Sn1, (g) Pt3Sn1, and (h) Pt2Sn2 clusters. Conversions of Pt1, Pt2, Pt3, Pt4, Pt2Sn1, and Pt3Sn1 are 3%; conversions of Pt1Sn1 and Pt2Sn2 are 0.14 and 0.01%, respectively, due to their extremely low reactivity. Operating conditions: T = 848 K, P = 1 atm, 5% propane feed, and 95% He feed.
The microkinetic degree of rate control (DRC) of intermediates, products, and transition states is shown in Figure 7. On Pt1, the rate is limited by stable surface species Ptx-2H* and the strong binding of H atoms, as indicated by the negative DRC, namely, the surface coverage influences the rate negatively. The desorption of C3H6 and H2 also limits the rate, as shown by the positive DRC values. On Pt2, the rate is limited by surface coverage in stable C3H6Ptx-2H* species and by C3H6 desorption. Similar to 2H-Pt* on Pt1, significant coverage of C3H6Ptx-2H* on Pt2 leads to negative DRC. Neither on Pt1 nor on Pt2 are the rates limited by dehydrogenation. In contrast, the rates on Pt3 and Pt4 are mainly limited by the two dehydrogenation barriers (TS1 and TS2). The 2H-Pt* species also controls the Pt3 DRC, albeit to a lower degree, consistent with the partial coverage of Pt3. For PtxSny clusters, the rates of Pt1Sn1, Pt2Sn2, and Pt3Sn1 are only limited by the dehydrogenation barriers (TS1 and TS2), while the rate of Pt2Sn1 is limited by the binding of H atoms, TS2, and H2 desorption.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Microkinetic degree of rate control (DRC) of intermediates, products, and transition states for PDH on Ptx and PtxSny clusters. DRC values are listed in Table S8.
In summary, we find that the C3H8 dehydrogenation rate is not always determined by a single step. Instead, it can be influenced by dehydrogenation and desorption steps as well as surface coverages of stable species. The key elementary step(s) and adsorbed state(s) change dramatically with nuclearity for these clusters. Increasing Pt nuclearity of Ptx clusters leads to less stable catalyst states and higher dehydrogenation barriers, shifting the rate-limiting steps from surface states to high barriers. Other than Pt2Sn1, the addition of Sn leads to less active Pt and, therefore, less stable surface states. Hence, rates are mainly limited by dehydrogenation transition states.
The apparent activation energies are derived from Arrhenius plots (Figures S15 and S16 based on eq S3). As illustrated in the DRC analysis, for reactions with complex free energy profiles, Eapp is not determined by a single reaction step. Instead, it is related to the energies of all species with positive or negative DRC values. Eapp can be quantitatively represented as an average of the standard-state enthalpies weighted by their degree of rate control, (58) as shown by eq 2
app
=


Δ

+
(2)
where Xi is the degree of rate control and ΔHi is the enthalpy change of species i with respect to its reactants. These averaged enthalpy changes are listed in Table S9 and plotted in Figure 8 vs the MKM Eapp. The parity confirms the main influence of certain species on the overall rate. Interestingly, there is no correlation between the apparent activation energy with activity (Figures 4c and 8). For example, Eapp for Pt3 and Pt3Sn1 is the lowest among clusters, even though these are not the most active. In converse, Pt2, the most active among the clusters studied, exhibits the highest Eapp. These findings reveal the complexity of analyzing experimental data, the interplay of multiple factors in determining the apparent kinetics, and the profound effect of nuclearity on kinetics.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Parity plot of microkinetic model apparent activation energies and weighted average of the standard-state enthalpies on Pt and PtxSny clusters. Values are listed in Table S9.
3.4. C3H6 Dehydrogenation and CC Cracking
In this section, we focus on PtxSny clusters for x and y  2; larger clusters, such as Pt3, Pt3Sn1, and Pt4, were not considered due to intractable combinatorial challenges related to the possible reaction pathways. As shown above, Pt1Sn1 and Pt2Sn2 are inactive, while Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1 show activity. These catalysts are further studied for deep dehydrogenations and CC cleavages to probe the selectivity to C3H6.
Figure 9 shows the free energy profiles for further dehydrogenation of C3H6 to C3H4 on Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1. On Pt1 and Pt2, the dehydrogenation barriers for C3H6 are close to those of C3H8. The CC cleavage of C3H6 on Pt1 is more facile than dehydrogenation. In contrast, on Pt2Sn1, both dehydrogenation and CC cleavage of C3H6 are energetically more demanding. However, our calculations indicate that CC cleavage of C3H4 on Pt1 and Pt2Sn1 is quite unlikely; in contrast, it is not as unlikely as on Pt2. Addition of Sn suppresses C3H6 binding with Pt and increases the dehydrogenation and cleavage barriers. The suppression of alkene binding potentially leads to less coke, suggested by similar suppression of C2H4 binding on Pt4Sn3 compared to Pt4 on silica. (13) The role of Sn hindering C3H6 conversion is akin to the extended PtSn surfaces and other heteroatoms to Pt such as Zn. (10,52) Further hydrogenation steps for CC cleavage to CH3CHPtCH2, leading to C2H6 and CH4, were calculated on Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1 (Figure S20). It is found that H2 adsorption is energetically very demanding, making these steps unfavorable, although after H2 adsorption, the hydrogenations are thermodynamically downhill.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Free energy profiles of C3H6 dehydrogenation to C3H4 at 848 K on Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1. (a) C3H6 dehydrogenation to C3H4, (b) C3H6 CC cleavage to CHCH3 and CH2 surface species, and (c) C3H4 CC cleavage to CH and CCH3 surface species.
The effect of Sn on hindering C3H6 conversion leads to high C3H6 selectivity as well as less coking from cracking. This agrees well with experimentally observed high C3H6 selectivity and good catalytic stability. For example, the Pt3Sn1 alloy surface of PtSn/SBA-15 contributed 92% to propylene selectivity, in contrast to less than 70% selectivity for reaction over Pt/SBA-15. In studies of PtSn/Al2O3, the dominant Pt3Sn1 phase leads to higher C3H6 selectivity and less coke compared to Pt/Al2O3. (11)
Figure 10 shows the free energy barriers of CC cleavage of C3H6 and C3H4 on Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1 clusters. For C3H6 cleavage, Pt2 has a slightly higher barrier than mononuclear Pt, while addition of Sn increases the barrier by more than 1.5 eV. A similar increase of the cleavage barrier, when Sn is added to the Pt dimer, is also observed for C3H4 cleavage. C3H4 cleavage is not as favorable as C3H6 on Pt1. Overall, an increase in nuclearity leads to a slight rise in C3H6 cleavage energy. The addition of Sn makes both C3H6 and C3H4 cleavage much more difficult. The latter finding is consistent with the hypothesized role of Sn in Pt and the selectivity of PDH. What is surprising is that one would expect that monomers and dimers do not support hydrogenolysis and that larger clusters enable more facile CC bond scission due to the ensemble effect. For these small clusters, the DFT data do not support this intuition. It is unclear at what size CC becomes relevant. We expand on this point below using MKM and semi-empirical methods.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Free energy barriers of CC cleavages of (a) C3H6 and (b) C3H4 on Pt1, Pt2, and Pt2Sn1 clusters.
A microkinetic analysis of an extended reaction network was conducted to probe selectivity for C3H6. The cleavage species from C3H6 and C3H4 are hydrogenated to CH4 and C2H6. The hydrogenation barriers were estimated using the BEP relationships in Figure S24. The CC cleavage of C3H62H-Pt* species was also considered in our MKM, and its barriers were estimated using the BEP relationship in Figure S25. The MKM-derived partial pressures of gas species (C3H8, C3H6, C2H6, and CH4), major surface species, and reaction path analysis are shown in Figures S26S30. Note that the reactor volume and, thus, the residence time have been scaled so that comparable conversion is achieved on each cluster. In reaction path analysis, one can observe a small amount of C3H6 that cleaves on Pt1, leading to CH4 and C2H6. On Pt2, the fraction of cleaved products is even smaller. On Pt2Sn1, no cleavage is observed. C3H6 desorption is not in equilibrium on Pt1 and Pt2, which is also one of the rate-controlling steps, as shown in the sensitivity analysis (Figure 7). On Pt2Sn1, the second dehydrogenation is not in equilibrium, which is also one of the rate-controlling steps. On all three clusters, we do not see much C3H6 dehydrogenation to C3H4. Only Pt1 produces small fractions of side products, such as C2H6, CH4, and C3H4.
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this work, we investigated the effects of cluster size and Sn content on cluster stability and PDH on PtxSny (x, y  4) clusters supported on γ-Al2O3(110). The stability of Pt clusters increases with increasing nuclearity. The addition of Sn also stabilizes Pt clusters due to the strong PtSn interaction. It is also favorable for Ptx clusters to bind with PtxSn1 clusters and form larger PtxSn1 clusters. Sn promotes Pt1Sn1 dispersion on alumina.
Although the dehydrogenation energy barriers increase with increasing Ptx cluster size, the reactivity is strongly dependent on the stability of surface species. Consequently, the activity exhibits a volcano curve with nuclearity, maximized for Pt2 whose activity is significantly high (a magic cluster-like behavior). The activity of Pt1, which exhibits the lower dehydrogenation barrier, is much lower than those of larger Pt clusters due to high H coverage. For Ptx (x > 1), the reactivity decreases with increasing cluster size, correlating with the calculated dehydrogenation barriers. The apparent reaction kinetics result from the interplay of reaction barriers and stability of intermediates and vary profoundly with nuclearity. The introduction of Sn lowers the reactivity of Pt, as has been reported in previous work. Increasing the Sn content leads to even lower reactivity. High dehydrogenation barriers and low TOFs on Pt1Sn1 and Pt2Sn2 suggest that a Pt/Sn ratio of 1:1 results in inactivity. When there is an excess of Pt atoms relative to Sn in PtxSny (e.g., Pt2Sn1 and Pt3Sn1), moderate TOF values were observed. For small clusters, it seems that a much lower Sn percent than an equimolar ratio, e.g., Pt3Sn1, gives higher activity. Furthermore, Pt1 promotes slight deep C3H6 conversion to cracked products, while Pt2 and Pt2Sn1 maintain high selectivity to C3H6. While the addition of Sn promotes C3H6 desorption, consistent with prior work, the microkinetics do not indicate hydrogenolysis on these small clusters, and thus, we expect cluster catalysts to be selective to olefins irrespective of Sn addition. Pt2 is the most active among the studied clusters; its TOF is very high, but it may suffer from stability. Pt3Sn1 seems to strike a better balance of enhanced stability with activity and should be a good experimental target.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 