<DOCUMENT>
Continuous-Flow Alkane Dehydrogenation by Supported Pincer-Ligated Iridium Catalysts at Elevated Temperatures

Abstract
Pincer-ligated iridium complexes of the form [Ir(R4PCP)L] (R4PCP = κ3-C6H3-2,6-(XPR2)2; X = CH2, O; R = tBu, iPr) are efficient homogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts that have been reported to be highly active at temperatures of 240 °C or below. In this work, silica-supported [Ir(C2H4)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (1/SiO2) was used to study a model continuous-flow gas-phase acceptorless alkane dehydrogenation system. This particular supported framework is thermally stable at temperatures up to 340 °C, 100 °C above the highest temperature at which analogous homogeneous complexes have been reported to show stable activity, with observed butane dehydrogenation rates of ca. 80 molbutenes molcat.–1 h–1. Solid-state 31P MAS NMR and ATR IR are used to demonstrate that the backbone pincer ligand remains intact and coordinated at 340 °C. The complex is fully converted to [Ir(CO)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (3/SiO2) above 300 °C. 3/SiO2 is observed to be catalytically active at the higher temperatures tested, and reaction rates are comparable to those of 1/SiO2. 3/SiO2 and 1/SiO2 act as resting states for the active 14-electron fragment, through dissociation of the CO or olefin ligand, respectively. Given that 3/SiO2 is air resistant at ambient temperature and is structurally stable and catalytically active at elevated temperatures, it is a suitable candidate as a catalyst for the highly endothermic acceptorless dehydrogenation of alkanes.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:alkane dehydrogenation pincer ligand silica supported molecular catalyst thermal stability

1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Olefins are highly versatile chemical building blocks, useful as precursors for polymers, fuels, and a wide range of chemicals. They are commercially obtained from dehydrogenation of alkanes in high-energy processes such as STAR, Catofin, and Oleflex. (1) However, such systems have significant shortcomings, including the fact that catalysts used industrially deactivate over time by coking due to the high temperatures used and need to be regenerated, leading to nontrivial downtime and energy expenditure. In addition, products need to be separated due to the numerous olefins produced from even short-chain alkane cracking.
With the advent of the “shale gas revolution”, (2−4) a new feedstock for such dehydrogenation processes has emerged. On-purpose dehydrogenation plants for light alkanes such as propane are being opened (5) or planned at an increased rate. These processes also suffer from the same issues as more traditional petroleum cracking, including a need for high-energy input, a lack of selectivity, and catalyst deactivation over time. (1)
Selectivity generally presents a major challenge for high-temperature alkane conversion processes. Thermal cracking is likely at high temperatures, leading to n-alkyl radicals which can then perform hydrogen atom abstraction or radical addition to olefins to form longer chain alkanes which can crack further. Shorter contact times can typically mitigate this, leading to a higher selectivity for the desired dehydrogenation products with minimal side products formed.
Pincer-ligated iridium catalysts (6) of the form [Ir(R4PCP)L] (R4PCP = κ3-C6H3-2,6-(XPR2)2; X = CH2, O; R = tBu, iPr) have been studied extensively in the context of homogeneous (solution-phase) alkane dehydrogenation for both their high activity as well as their regioselectivity for formation of terminal olefin. Dehydrogenation by such catalysts can occur at or below 240 °C, allowing for reaction conditions much milder than current industry standards. The lower equilibrium conversion under these milder conditions does not allow these catalysts to reach the higher olefin yields achieved in industrial processes at much higher temperatures, but they may be incorporated into tandem processes that upgrade and consume the olefins as they form, producing value-added products in a single reactor. (7) Since their discovery, various frameworks including [Ir(POCOP)], [Ir(PCOP)], [Ir(PSCOP)], [Ir(CCC)], and [Ir(NCN)], as well as complexes of metals other than iridium, have been developed and investigated for various reactions, including dehydrogenation. (8) Recently, [Ir(iPr4PCP)] complexes analogous to the parent [Ir(tBu4PCP)] complex have been used in the dehydrogenation of gas-phase alkane, (9) functioning as discrete molecular catalysts in a solventless system, suggesting their potential for dehydrogenation of shorter-chain olefins such as ethane and propane.
In order to develop industrially relevant processes based on alkane dehydrogenation by pincer-iridium complexes, it would be desirable to implement such selective catalysts in a continuous-flow system. Supporting catalyst precursors of the form [Ir(COD)L2] on metal oxide surfaces has afforded dehydrogenation activity which remained stable with the initial addition of excess phosphine. (10−12) Pincer-ligated catalysts have also previously been supported to the same end: supported complexes of the form [Ir(X-R4PCP)] and [Ir(X-R4POCOP)] (X = functional group) on alumina also result in active dehydrogenation catalysts. (13)
Iridium complexes of triptycene-based pincer ligands have also been supported on alumina, (14) presumably via a Lewis acid–Lewis base interaction anchoring the catalyst in place. More recently, MOF-supported pincer-iridium complexes have also been observed to be catalytically active in hydrogenation which, while being the reverse of acceptorless dehydrogenation, suggests promise in the development of systems incorporating MOF-supported dehydrogenation catalysts. (15)
In all reports of supported pincer-ligated catalysts, a backbone substituent, most often in the para position of a central aryl group, is required to maintain activity. In the case of alumina as the supporting material, Lewis basic substituents such as −OK, −OMe, and −NMe2 have been incorporated into active, supported catalysts. (13) In the absence of such a para substituent, oxidative addition of support hydroxyl groups to the iridium center occurs, resulting in Ir(III) species. (15−17) Such catalysts are effective in olefin hydrogenation, with reported turnover frequencies of up to 0.95 s–1 and stable activity for several days in the case of ethylene. (16,17) However, these Ir(III) catalysts are not expected to be good alkane dehydrogenation catalysts in comparison to pincer-ligated Ir(I) complexes, as they would not have access to the established Ir(I)–Ir(III) couple responsible for dehydrogenation with molecular catalysts.
While more active for dehydrogenation than their unfunctionalized analogues, γ-alumina-supported [Ir(p-KO-tBu4POCOP)] and [Ir(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] catalysts still show a 60–80% drop in activity upon recycling under transfer dehydrogenation conditions, while γ-alumina-supported [Ir(p-Me2N-tBu4PCP)] showed no added recyclability in comparison with solution-phase systems. Deactivation can occur by a variety of mechanisms, including inhibition by products, thermal decomposition, or undesirable interaction with the support such as the generation of a resting-state Ir(III) species outside of the catalytic cycle of interest.
In this work, we report the development and kinetic studies of a continuous-flow gas-phase system for alkane dehydrogenation by pincer-iridium complexes. Such a system allows access to reaction conditions unattainable in a batch system—fine control over pressure and temperature, reagent partial pressures, and residence time. Unlike in batch or semibatch experiments where they may accumulate, products are continuously removed from the reactor, limiting the extent of secondary reaction or product inhibition. In this system, we use [Ir(C2H4)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] on various supports as a model catalyst precursor, and we demonstrate catalyst stability under acceptorless alkane dehydrogenation conditions. Through MAS NMR, XPS, and ATR FTIR, we describe catalyst speciation as a function of reaction conditions, providing insight into the catalyst species involved in the reaction.
2. Experimental Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
All chemical syntheses and material preparations were performed under an air-free atmosphere unless otherwise noted. The ethylene complexes [Ir(C2H4)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (1) and [Ir(C2H4)(tBu4POCOP)Ir] (2) were synthesized according to previously established procedures. (13) The carbonyl complex [Ir(CO)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (3) and dihydride complex [IrH2(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (4) were obtained from 1 using procedures used for similar complexes. (18)
2.1.1. (p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)
In a Schlenk flask charged with a stir bar were placed 100 mg (0.79 mmol) of phloroglucinol and 76 mg (3.17 mmol) of sodium hydride, and these were dissolved in 15 mL of THF with the evolution of hydrogen. This mixture was stirred at reflux for 2 h, at which point 570 mg (3.17 mmol) of chloro-di-tert-butylphosphine was added and the mixture stirred an additional 2 h. Volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the solid residue was extracted several times with pentane and filtered through a Kimwipe plug. The washes were combined, and volatiles were pulled off in vacuo at 55 °C to yield the product as 391 mg (0.70 mmol, 89%) of a white solid. Purity was confirmed by comparison to literature. (13)
2.1.2. [IrClH(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)]
In a Schlenk flask charged with a stir bar were placed 229 mg (0.409 mmol) of (p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP) and 137 mg (0.204 mmol) of [Ir(COD)Cl]2, and these were dissolved in 10 mL of toluene. This solution was stirred at reflux for 16 h, by which point the solution was deep red. All volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the residue was extracted several times with benzene and filtered through a Kimwipe plug. Solvent was removed in vacuo once again to leave the product as a bright red microcrystalline powder (256 mg, 80% yield). 31P and 1H NMR spectra matched well with those in the literature. (13)
2.1.3. [Ir(C2H4)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (1)
In a Schlenk flask charged with a stir bar were placed 100 mg (0.127 mol) of [IrClH(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] and 14.3 mg (0.127 mmol) of potassium tert-butoxide, and these were dissolved in 5 mL of benzene. This solution was stirred under ethylene at room temperature for 16 h, with a slight change in color to red-brown. All volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the residue was extracted several times with benzene and filtered through a Kimwipe plug. Solvent was removed in vacuo once again to leave the product as a brown microcrystalline powder (90 mg, 91% yield). 31P and 1H NMR spectra matched well with those in the literature. (13)
2.1.4. (tBu4POCOP)
In a Schlenk flask charged with a stir bar were placed 202 mg (1.83 mol) of resorcinol and 92 mg (3.83 mmol) of sodium hydride, and these were dissolved in 10 mL of THF (caution! evolution of hydrogen). This mixture was stirred at reflux for 1 h, at which point 0.73 mL (690 mg, 3.8 mmol) of chloro-di-tert-butylphosphine was added and the mixture stirred an additional 16 h. Volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the solid residue was extracted several times with pentane and filtered through a Kimwipe plug. The washes were combined, and volatiles were pulled off in vacuo at 55 °C to yield the product as a translucent colorless oil (637 mg, 89% yield). 31P and 1H NMR spectra matched well with those in the literature. (19)
2.1.5. [IrClH(tBu4POCOP)]
In a Schlenk flask charged with a stir bar were placed 195 mg (0.489 mmol) of (tBu4POCOP) and 150 mg (0.223 mol) of [Ir(COD)Cl]2, and these were dissolved in 5 mL of toluene. This solution was stirred at reflux for 24 h, by which point the solution was deep red. All volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the residue was extracted several times with toluene and filtered through a Kimwipe plug. Solvent was removed in vacuo once again to leave the product as a brown microcrystalline powder (246 mg, 88% yield). 31P and 1H NMR spectra matched well with those in the literature. (19)
2.1.6. [Ir(C2H4)(tBu4POCOP)] (2)
In a Schlenk flask charged with a stir bar were placed 50.7 mg (0.0810 mmol) of [IrClH(tBu4POCOP)] and 9.5 mg (0.085 mmol) of potassium tert-butoxide, and these were dissolved in 10 mL of toluene. This solution was stirred under ethylene at room temperature for 16 h, with a slight darkening in color. All volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the residue was extracted several times with pentane and filtered through a Kimwipe plug. Solvent was removed in vacuo once again to leave the product as a brown microcrystalline powder (43 mg, 86% yield). 31P and 1H NMR spectra matched well with those in the literature. (13)
2.1.7. [Ir(CO)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (3)
In a J. Young NMR tube was placed 30 mg (0.039 mmol) of [Ir(C2H4)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (1) dissolved in 400 μL of C6D6. This solution was then degassed and charged with 1 atm of carbon monoxide. The NMR tube was spun overnight, by which point the solution was a dark orange, and quantitative conversion to the carbonyl complex was observed by NMR along with generation of free ethylene. Volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the isolated yellow solid was used without further purification. Anal. Calcd for C31H56O4P3Ir (777.91 g/mol): C, 47.86; H, 7.26. Found: C, 42.35; H, 8.79. 1H NMR (400 MHz, C6D6): δ 1.09 (d, 3JP,H = 11.6 Hz, 18 H, 2 × P(tBu)2), 1.31 (virtual t, 3JP,H = 7.2 Hz, 36 H, 4 × P(tBu)2), 7.00 (s, 2 H, Ar H). 31P{1H} NMR (162 MHz, C6D6): δ 154.3 (s, 1 × uncoordinated P(tBu)2), 202.6 (s, 2 × coordinated P(tBu)2).
2.1.8. [IrH4(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (4)
In a J. Young NMR tube was placed 10 mg (0.013 mmol) of [Ir(C2H4)(p-tBu2PO-tBu4POCOP)] (1) dissolved in 400 μL of d8-toluene. This solution was then degassed and charged with 1 atm of H2. The NMR tube was spun overnight, and >99% conversion to the H2 and H4 complexes was observed by NMR along with generation of ethane. Volatiles were removed in vacuo, and the isolated brown solid was used without further purification. Anal. Calcd for C30H58O3P3Ir (751.92 g/mol): C, 47.92; H, 7.77. Found: C, 44.05; H, 9.80. 1H NMR (400 MHz, d8-toluene): dihydride, δ −8.42 (bs, 2H, Ir–H), 1.10 (d, 3JP,H = 11.6 Hz, 18 H, 2 × P(tBu)2), 1.30 (virtual t, 3JP,H = 7.13 Hz, 36 H, 4 × P(tBu)2), 7.09 (s, 2 H, Ar H); tetrahydride, δ −17.6 (bs, 4 H, Ir–H), 0.95 (d, 3JP,H = 14.7 Hz, 18 H, 2 × P(tBu)2), 7.00 (s, 2 H, Ar H). Note: Signals from chelating tert-butyl protons overlapped with signals from dihydride and thus were not observed. 31P{1H} NMR (162 MHz, d8-toluene): dihydride, δ 156.4 (s, 1 × uncoordinated P(tBu)2), 211.5 (s, 2 × coordinated P(tBu)2); tetrahydride, δ 189.3 (s, 2 × coordinated P(tBu)2). Note: the signals from chelating phosphorus atoms overlapped with signals from the same in the dihydride complex and thus were not observed.
Mg(Al)O was prepared by postsynthesis modification of hydrotalcite. Aluminum nitrate nonahydrate, magnesium nitrate hexahydrate, sodium carbonate, and sodium hydroxide were obtained from Acros and used as received. Hydrotalcite was synthesized by the coprecipitation method. (20,21) A solution prepared from Al(NO3)3·9H2O and Mg(NO3)2·6H2O in deionized water was added dropwise into a stirred solution of Na2CO3 and NaOH in deionized water at a constant temperature of 60 °C, and stirring was continued for an 1 h after mixing. The rinsed and filtered hydrotalcite precipitate was dried at 110 °C and then ground. The powder was calcined at 700 °C for 3 h in a tube furnace to yield the hydrotalcite-derived Mg(Al)O.
Mesoporous silica (Sigma-Aldrich) and γ-alumina (Strem) were obtained commercially. SiO2, Al2O3, and Mg(Al)O were calcined in a gastight reactor equipped with valves to seal the samples in dry air following calcination. Calcination was carried out under 100 mL min–1 using a 2 °C min–1 ramp to 550 °C, held for 3 h, and cooled to room temperature at 2 °C min–1. The reactor was then sealed using the valves and transported to a high-vacuum line, evacuated, and brought into a glovebox for use as catalyst support.
In a typical experiment, 5 mg of catalyst (1, 2, or 3) was supported onto 150 mg of support (SiO2, Al2O3, or Mg(Al)O) using incipient wetness impregnation. Approximately 3.2 wt % of catalyst/support was prepared by dissolving the catalyst in a volume of benzene or toluene equivalent to the pore volume of the support material. The nominal catalyst coverage calculated from the amount of metal catalyst impregnated in the support is approximately 0.8 metal wt % based on iridium. The actual amount of iridium deposited was determined by ICP-MS analysis (Robertson Microlit Laboratories) to be 0.71 wt % and by XPS to be 0.77 wt %, in good agreement with the expected value. After impregnation, the solid was dried for 1 h in the glovebox prior to packing in the gas-phase flow reactor. 1/SiO2 is a red-purple powder, 2/SiO2 is a brown powder, and 3/SiO2 is a yellow powder.
2.2. Steady-State Gas-Phase Continuous-Flow Catalytic Data
Reactions were carried out in a 6.4 mm outer diameter (o.d.) quartz tube reactor with an expanded section of 12.5 mm o.d. packed with quartz wool to hold the catalyst powder in place. The reactor was packed with supported catalyst under an argon atmosphere, sealed with valves prior to connection to the gas-flow manifold, and connected under inert gas flow. The reactor was placed inside a resistively heated ceramic furnace with external temperature control, and the catalyst bed temperature was measured with a K-type thermocouple placed in direct contact with the catalyst bed.
Butane (Airgas, 99.99%) was used as received. Helium (Praxair, 99.999%) was passed through an on-stream oxygen and moisture trap. Reaction products were analyzed using an Agilent 7890B GC instrument equipped with a GS-GASPRO capillary column (0.32 mm × 60 m) fitted with a splitter plate connected to a flame ionization detector and a 5977A mass spectrometer. Unless stated otherwise, all experiments were carried out at 1.27 atm total pressure by throttling a needle valve located downstream from the reactor.
Gas flow rates reported were measured at room temperature and pressure. For experiments at elevated pressure, the gas flow rates were increased to maintain constant volumetric flow rate at the reactor pressure.
2.3. Batch Catalytic Data
In a typical batch experiment, 1.5 mL glass ampules were sealed with either 100 μL of a solution of 1 or 2 (1 mM) in dodecane or the equivalent amount of catalyst supported on 6.7 mg of SiO2 (to match catalyst loading used in continuous-flow runs) in the presence of 100 μL of dodecane. These ampules were heated from room temperature to 340 °C and held for 30 min or 24 h, at which point the oven was cooled and the vials were removed. The ampules were opened in a glovebox and the liquid contents sampled via GC. In the case of recycling experiments, all volatiles were removed by mild heating under vacuum. Fresh dodecane was added, and the ampules were resealed. All experiments were performed in duplicate.
2.4. Catalyst Characterization
Solution-phase NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian-400 or Varian-500 spectrometer. The samples for solid-state 31P MAS NMR spectra were packed into 3.2 mm zirconia solid-state NMR rotors under an argon atmosphere and sealed with tight-fitting rotor caps. Solid-state 31P MAS NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker Avance III spectrometer operating at 162 MHz with magic angle spinning (MAS) of 10 kHz. The rotors were spun with air, and no change to sample spectra was observed on the time scale of spectrum collection. All spectra were recorded at room temperature. Spinning side bands were observed at 10 kHz intervals upfield and downfield of immobile species signals, corresponding to the frequency of the rotor spin.
Attenuated total reflectance–Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectra were measured on a Bruker ALPHA spectrometer equipped with a germanium crystal plate.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was measured under UHV using a Thermo Fisher K-Alpha XPS instrument equipped with a monochromatic Al Kα line with photon energy of 1486.7 eV. The estimated depth sensitivity in this geometry is about 10 nm. (22) Spectra were deconvoluted using the method described by Nesbitt and Banerjee. (23) All reported binding energies are in reference to the C(1s) peak at 284.8 eV.
Multipoint BET surface area and pore volume distribution were measured at −196 °C by nitrogen physisorption using an Autosorb1 instrument (Quantachrome). Pore diameter and volume were measured via NLDFT equilibrium physisorption at −196 °C with nitrogen as the adsorbent and silica as the oxygen model. Samples were degassed under nitrogen at 100 °C for 6 h prior to surface area measurement in a 6 mm tube.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. As-Prepared Supported Catalyst
Upon support of 1 on SiO2, chemisorption is expected to lead to a condensation reaction between the para-substituent phosphinite group and a surface hydroxyl group to form a covalent Si–O–C bond between the molecular catalyst and the surface of the silica. (24) The resulting supported complex, 1/SiO2, is anchored to a single site on the surface of the support, as illustrated in Figure 1. The red-purple color (Figure S1) of the supported complex is consistent with the color of the complex in solution prior to supporting on SiO2. To confirm that the supported catalyst structure was consistent with 1/SiO2 and with previous reports, solid-state 31P MAS NMR was conducted to examine the environment of the chelating phosphorus atoms of the pincer ligands.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Molecular catalyst species (1–4) prepared and supported on SiO2 in the present study and expected structures for covalently anchored supported molecular catalysts from chemisorption (1/SiO2–4/SiO2). The silica surface is represented by one SiO4 tetrahedron.
Figure 2a shows the solution-phase 31P NMR spectrum of 1, with two signals for phosphorus corresponding to the para-substituent phosphinite group at 150.6 ppm (13) and the chelating phosphorus atoms at 181.0 ppm (13) with an approximate peak area ratio of 1:2, consistent with the structure of 1. Upon support of 1 on SiO2, the majority of the complex undergoes condensation with surface silanol groups at room temperature to generate 1/SiO2. The spectrum of the supported complex (Figure 2b) shows the formation of two major new peaks at 174.7 and 72.5 ppm. A small amount of complex 1 remained in physisorbed or molecular form, as evidenced by the minor peaks at 150.6 and 181.0 ppm. The new peak at 174.7 ppm (13) is assigned to the chelating phosphorus atoms of the supported complex 1/SiO2, shifted upfield from 181.0 ppm for the physisorbed species. The chemisorbed and covalently anchored species is anchored strongly to the surface and is relatively immobile, as indicated by the presence of spinning sidebands which would be absent in the case of more mobile species. The new peak at 72.5 ppm is assigned to di-tert-butylphosphine oxide, (24) the leaving group from the condensation reaction of the para-substituent phosphinite group of 1. The peak area ratio between the 72.5 and 174.7 ppm peaks was approximately 1:2, consistent with the stoichiometry of the condensation reaction between 1 and a silanol group to form 1/SiO2 and di-tert-butylphosphine oxide. This binding interaction preserves the iridium in the Ir(I) oxidation state.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Solution-phase 31P NMR of (a) 1 and (h) 3 in C6D6. Solid-state 31P MAS NMR of freshly supported (b) 1/SiO2 and (g) 3/SiO2, and (c–f) 1/SiO2 following continuous butane dehydrogenation for 1.5 h at 200, 250, 300, and 340 °C, respectively. Spinning sidebands are denoted with asterisks. The symbol ≠ denotes the conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, and Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
The interaction of pincer complexes lacking para substituents, including 2, with SiO2 surfaces has been studied extensively and leads to interaction through the iridium center, as shown for 2/SiO2 in Figure 1. (16,17,25,26) These chemisorbed Ir(III) complexes have been shown to be active for hydrogenation reactions in batch and continuous-flow systems.
The effect of supported molecular iridium complexes on the surface area was investigated using the carbonyl complex 3 instead of the olefin complex 1. Pincer-type iridium carbonyl complexes have been anecdotally reported to be more stable with respect to air exposure relative to olefin complexes. For example, the time scale over which the color of the complex changes upon air exposure is significantly longer for carbonyl complexes, which we have also observed. This higher air tolerance permitted the collection of accurate BET surface area measurements with low risk of the catalyst changing oxidation state or structure over the time scale of the BET experiment. The surface area of the calcined SiO2 was 578 m2 g–1. Upon support of 3, the surface area of 3/SiO2 decreased to 510 m2 g–1 and the pore volume decreased from 0.77 to 0.62 cm3 g–1, indicating the presence of catalyst within the mesopores of the support. Also observed were a small drop in larger diameter pores (6–10 nm pores) and a decrease in the modal pore width from 5.4 to 5.1 nm, both consistent with a submonolayer surface coverage of iridium complexes. Assuming 1.67 silanol groups per square nanometer for SiO2 calcined at 550 °C, (27) the expected ratio of SiOH groups to Ir atoms is approximately 3000.
Comparison of the solution-phase 31P NMR of 3 (Figure 2h) with the solid-state NMR of 3/SiO2 (Figure 2g) confirmed that the carbonyl complex was supported in a manner analogous to that of the olefin complex 1/SiO2. As observed with 1, the chemical shift of the p-phosphinite group in 3 at 151.9 ppm (13) disappeared upon support on SiO2, yielding a signal at 73.4 ppm attributable to di-tert-butylphosphine oxide. The substitution of the ethylene ligand by CO has a strong effect on the chemical shift of the chelating phosphorus atoms, resulting in a downfield shift from 181.0 ppm in 1 to 200.1 ppm in 3; the corresponding chemical shifts for the supported species are 174.7 and 202.8 ppm for 1/SiO2 and 3/SiO2, respectively.
The dihydride analogue of 1, species 4, could be considered as a viable catalyst precursor for support on SiO2 and yet was found to interact with the surface in a way very different from that of 1/SiO2. 4 was prepared and supported on SiO2 using the same procedure as for 1 and 3. The 31P NMR showed a significant shift in the peak corresponding to the chelating phosphorus atoms from 206.8 ppm in the solution-phase spectrum of 4 to 175.3 ppm in the MAS spectrum of the supported 4/SiO2 (Figure S2). The new peak is similar in chemical shift to the chelating phosphorus atoms in 2/SiO2 at 170 ppm, (16) where a surface hydroxyl group is oxidatively added to the iridium center, with simultaneous loss of H2. A p-phosphinite peak appears in the spectrum of 4/SiO2 at 153.4 ppm, similar to 1/SiO2. However, the spectrum of 4/SiO2 shows spinning sidebands for this peak, indicating an immobilized species, unlike in 1/SiO2, where spinning sidebands for this peak are totally absent, indicating a mobile and physisorbed species. The preservation of the p-phosphinite peak shows that the complex has not anchored via condensation reaction with a silanol group. As this binding mode leads to an Ir(III) complex, activity toward dehydrogenation is not expected.
These results serve to shed light on the future rational design of such supportable catalysts. Even with an established supporting strategy, a highly reactive and unhindered iridium center will preferentially react with the surface and form an undesired product. While the olefin and carbonyl ligands in 1 and 3 were sufficient to prevent interaction of the Ir center with surface silanol groups, the analogous iridium dihydride complex behaves much more similarly to 2 when supported on silica. It is important to note, however, that since the oxidative addition of surface silanol groups is reversible while phosphinite generation is irreversible, given sufficient time under reaction conditions (200 °C under alkane flow), this species may ultimately form the para-supported surface species, presumably with bound olefin in the fourth coordination site.
3.2. Steady-State Continuous-Flow Butane Dehydrogenation
The primary advantage of a properly supported heterogeneous catalyst is the trivial separation of catalyst from reactants and products, and this is best exemplified under continuous-flow reaction conditions. To explore the effectiveness of supported pincer-type iridium catalysts, the acceptorless dehydrogenation of butane over catalyst 1/SiO2 was selected.
Prior to the present study, 240 °C was the highest temperature for which data were available for catalytic alkane dehydrogenation by pincer-ligated iridium complexes. (9) Above this temperature, rate data were found to be unreliable, as the catalyst decomposed and yielded a black solid that precipitated from solution or collected on reactor vessel walls. (13) To test the temperature stability of supported 1/SiO2, steady-state butane dehydrogenation was measured at temperatures between 200 and 340 °C, shown in Figure 3a. These experiments revealed an unprecedented stable reactivity for pincer-ligated iridium catalysts at 340 °C. Previously, 200–240 °C was considered the highest temperature accessible for molecular dehydrogenation catalysts. (28)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Catalyst activity as a function of temperature: (a) 200–340 °C; (b) 360–440 °C. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Due to the unfavorable thermodynamics for alkane dehydrogenation at the temperatures studied here, it is important to note that the reaction can potentially reach equilibrium conversion of the starting alkane within the catalyst bed of the reactor. Reaction rates reported in this study primarily denote the net rate of forward reaction under these conditions, although reaction rates far from equilibrium can be measured by manipulating the residence time in the reactor (see e.g. Figure 6 discussed below).
At 200 °C the net forward rate of the reaction was low, on the order of 1 h–1, but the activity was stable and did not decline with time on stream. The 31P MAS NMR spectrum of the catalyst after 1.5 h of exposure to reaction conditions at 200 °C (Figure 2c) was essentially indistinguishable from that of freshly supported 1/SiO2, except that no signal could be found for physisorbed catalyst species, suggesting that the heating resulted in physisorbed species covalently attaching to the surface. The similarities in the NMR spectra between 1/SiO2 freshly supported and 1/SiO2 after 1.5 h of reaction at 200 °C indicate the similar chemical environments of the chelating phosphorus atoms, which did not change significantly with the identity of the coordinating olefin (ethylene prior to reaction, and presumably butene(s) after reaction). The catalyst remained unchanged in color, indicative of very little change in electronic properties of the complex upon binding a different, albeit very similar, ligand (Figure S1).
When the supported catalyst was heated to 250 °C, the 31P MAS NMR spectrum showed a new small peak at 201.2 ppm (Figure 2d). A reduction in the di-tert-butylphosphine oxide peak was also observed relative to the peak corresponding to the chelating phosphorus atoms, possibly due to desorption of the molecule from the surface at higher temperature. At this temperature, the reaction rate was still stable and so higher reaction temperatures were attempted. At 300 °C, a steady butene formation rate of 35 h–1 was observed over 1.5 h of time on stream. At this temperature (Figure 2e), the peak in the 31P MAS NMR spectrum corresponding to the olefin complex at 174.7 ppm had disappeared, and the peak at 201 ppm had grown. Thus, the resting state of the catalyst was now a different species than the starting olefin complex, though it showed similar reactivity. The di-tert-butylphosphine oxide peak also disappeared, indicating that desorption of the volatile molecule was complete.
Upon continued heating of the catalyst, a reaction rate of 84 h–1 was reached at a temperature of 340 °C and was stable for 1.5 h. By this temperature, the color had changed to brown-yellow, though the 31P MAS NMR (Figure 2f) showed no significant changes relative to the spectrum at 300 °C. The peak at 201 ppm coincided well with the freshly supported carbonyl complex 3/SiO2 (this is further discussed in section 3.4). It is worth noting that there is no evidence for deactivation of the catalyst via oxidation at the phosphine positions or dimerization up to at least 340 °C, both of which would result in significant changes in the chemical shift of the corresponding phosphorus signals.
Heating the catalyst above 340 °C under butane dehydrogenation conditions led to a color change to gray and then black (Figure S1), the appearance of a red-orange band on the quartz tube wall downstream of the reactor heated zone, and declining reaction rates as a function of time on stream (Figure 3b). The color change is consistent with that observed with pincer-iridium catalysts in solution when they are heated above reaction temperatures of ca. 200–240 °C. The red-orange band downstream of the reactor likely arises from the sublimation (29) of a small amount of pincer-iridium complex at high temperature and then condensation of the leachate in a colder spot downstream of the heated zone. This condensate was analyzed by 31P and 1H solution-phase NMR and showed several peaks consistent with symmetric, chelated pincer species.
While the activity of the catalyst was not stable above 340 °C, it did continue to increase as a function of temperature despite 8 h of exposure to temperatures where the activity was unstable. The highest initial reaction rate measured at any temperature was 315 h–1 at 440 °C, which declined to 186 h–1 after 4 h. This suggests that some of the supported molecular catalyst survived at 440 °C and was responsible for the reaction rates observed, while the concentration of such species decreased as a function of time. Continued exposure to reaction conditions at 440 °C for over 3 days led to a further decline in reaction rate to 149 h–1, at which the rate stabilized. This new steady-state activity can therefore be attributed to the thermal decomposition product of the molecular catalyst, which retains some lower activity. The reaction temperature was subsequently reduced to compare the steady-state activity of the decomposed catalyst to the anchored molecular catalyst. At 340 °C, the reaction rate had dropped to 21 h–1, down from 77 h–1 in the fresh catalyst, and at 200 °C, the reaction rate was 0.27 h–1, down from 1.1 h–1.
31P MAS NMR of the catalyst following reaction at 440 °C showed no strong signals, indicating a complete loss of chelating pincer ligands. This means that both oxidation of the chelating phosphines and dimerization of the anchored complexes are unlikely deactivation mechanisms. The P(2p) region of the XPS spectrum (Figure 4) also showed a complete loss of phosphorus signal after heating to 440 °C, in comparison to the strong phosphorus signal in the as-prepared sample. Thus, relative to the liquid phase, covalently supporting the catalyst on SiO2 greatly increases the thermal stability of the pincer-Ir catalysts and delays the onset temperature for catalyst deactivation by ca. 100 °C.
Figure 4
Figure 4. P(2p) and Ir(4f) regions of XPS spectra of as-prepared 1/SiO2 compared with those of a sample after exposure to reaction conditions at 440 °C for 3 days. Conditions: V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Analysis of the Ir(4f) region of the as-prepared sample XPS spectrum (Figure 4) shows a spin–orbit doublet consistent with Ir(I) species, while evidence of metallic iridium or Ir(0) is lacking. (30) Following reaction conditions for over 3 days at 440 °C, the peaks broadened slightly and shifted to higher binding energy. The shift in the spectrum to higher binding energy indicates an increase in the oxidation state upon decomposition of the catalyst, rather than a reduction to iridium metal. The similar Ir(4f) peak intensities between the as-prepared and spent catalyst indicates that the catalyst loss due to sublimation discussed above was small in comparison to the total catalyst loading and was not a major source of deactivation. The loss of chelating phosphorus from the pincer ligand and the oxidation of the iridium are responsible for the reduction in activity following high-temperature treatment.
While the reactivity of 1/SiO2 observed at 340 °C appeared to be stable over 1.5 h of reaction time, the fact that 360 °C was sufficient to cause deactivation necessitated a longer time on stream experiment to determine if any deactivation occurs at 340 °C. The results, shown in Figure 5, show that even after 3 days of continuous operation there was no appreciable decline in activity for butene formation, with a calculated turnover number of over 3500. Covalently anchoring pincer-Ir species on a high-surface-area SiO2 support creates a true heterogeneous catalyst with enhanced thermal stability relative to the molecular homogeneous catalyst. This stability seems likely to arise from the reduced mobility of the Ir species, limiting their ability to engage in intermolecular reactions.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Catalyst activity as a function of time on stream. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 5 mL min–1, Pbutane = Ptotal = 1.27 atm, T = 340 °C.
These results compare favorably with prior reports of homogeneous catalysis by solution-phase [Ir(R4PCP)]-type pincer complexes. To the best of our knowledge, there are no prior reports on batch-phase acceptorless linear alkane dehydrogenation making use of [Ir(R4POCOP)]-type pincer complexes. [Ir(tBu4PCP)] complexes afforded no discernible products at reflux in the acceptorless dehydrogenation of n-decane (at the boiling point of n-decane, 174 °C) in a sealed system. (31) In the dehydrogenation of n-undecane (bp 196 °C) at reflux in an open system that allows the escape of hydrogen, an initial rate of 46 h–1 has been observed with [IrH2(tBu4PCP)], which decreased by about a factor of 2 within the first 2 h. (32) In contrast, the continuous-flow gas-phase system described here displays negligible activity loss over several days.
The approach to chemical equilibrium between butane and the reaction products was explored by manipulation of the space time in the reactor. At long space times, with sufficient contact time between reactant (butane) and product gases (1-butene, cis-2-butene, trans-2-butene, hydrogen) and the catalyst, the gases should be fully equilibrated with each other. This equilibrium conversion is the maximum achievable under a fixed set of reaction conditions. The measured reaction rate at this point is the net forward reaction rate at equilibrium and will not be affected by further increasing the space time. Reducing the space time will lead to a monotonic decrease in conversion, accompanied by an increase in the net forward reaction rate as the concentration of product gases is reduced. This expected behavior was observed during a space time (τ) test at 340 °C. Increasing the space time led to an increase in conversion, with a plateau at 3.7% conversion (Figure 6). Conversely, the net reaction rate reduced with increasing space time as reactants and products approached equilibrium concentration in the gas phase. However, at the shortest space times, the reaction was sufficiently far from equilibrium, and much larger net reaction rates were measured. The net reaction rate was only 13.3 h–1 at sufficiently long space times but increased to 200 h–1 at very short contact times. The continuous reaction conditions used in the present study thus have another advantage in the study of molecular catalysts relative to batch operation, in that the true reactivity of the catalyst at sufficiently small contact times can be studied. Extrapolating the measured data to zero space time and zero conversion gives the intrinsic forward reaction rate, as the reverse reaction rate is zero at zero conversion. The value obtained from Figure 6 is approximately 235 h–1 at 340 °C. Assuming that the reaction rate is first order in butane when the system is far from equilibrium, this gives a first-order rate constant of 3.6 × 103 atm–1 h–1.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Effect of space time on catalyst activity and conversion. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, T = 340 °C, V̇otal = 4–100 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
While the above calculations assumed a first-order dependence between the butane partial pressure and the reaction rate when the system is far from equilibrium, the expected relationship when the system is close to equilibrium is quite different. If the partial pressures of olefin (Pbutenes) and hydrogen (PH2) from the dehydrogenation of butane are assumed to be equal to one another, then the equilibrium constant (Keq) can be rearranged to give PbutenesPH2 = Pbutenes2 = KeqPbutane. The partial pressure of butenes, and therefore the formation rate of butenes, is therefore expected to have half-order dependence on Pbutane regardless of temperature. The measured dependence in rate of formation of butenes at 200 and 340 °C on butane partial pressure at long space time was found to follow a half-order power law (Figure 7), confirming that at long space time the reaction reached equilibrium regardless of temperature.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Effect of butane partial pressure at varying temperature and space time. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, at T = 200 °C (blue ■) (values ×100) and 340 °C (green ■), V̇total = 20–32 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32–2 atm, PHe = 0.95–0 atm, PTot = 1.27–2 atm. The curves fit to half-order power law functions.
The selectivity toward each butene isomer as a function of temperature between 200 and 340 °C is given in Figure 8. Selectivity was constant as a function of time on stream, a further indication of the stability of the active site. Selectivity also did not vary with residence time (Figure S3), regardless of the distance from equilibrium conversion. The product distribution did vary with temperature up to 340 °C, but only slightly, and closely matched changes expected from equilibrium calculations. As predicted by equilibrium, the selectivity between butenes declined as trans-2-butene > cis-2-butene > 1-butene. Equilibrium calculations predict a higher yield of trans-2-butene and a lower yield of 1-butene in comparison to those observed experimentally. In contrast to the stable selectivity with time on stream at 340 °C over 3 days, the selectivity changed continually at 440 °C over a similar time period (Figure S4). This highlights the stable nature of the active site at a temperature insufficient to cause catalyst decomposition, in comparison to significant changes in the nature of the catalyst active site at the higher temperature.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Effect of temperature on selectivity between 200 and 340 °C: (blue ■) 1-butene; (orange ■), trans-2-butene; (green ■); cis-2-butene. Dashed lines indicate the expected product distributions from equilibrium calculations. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm, T = 200–340 °C.
3.3. Effect of Catalyst Support
The influence of support acidity on the catalytic properties of supported 1 was investigated by comparing SiO2 to γ-Al2O3, a more acidic support, and hydrotalcite-derived Mg(Al)O, a less acidic support. Mg(Al)O is a slightly basic support that is inert toward reaction of olefins at elevated temperatures. (21) Experimental results show that the dehydrogenation activities of 1 supported on all three oxide supports were comparable and stable over several hours (Figure 9), with nearly identical steady-state activities. The choice of support and its acidity did not appear to influence the activity of the catalyst. The selectivity of the reaction was similarly unaffected.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Comparison of 1-butene formation rates on support of 1 on SiO2 (green ●), Mg(Al)O (blue ■), and Al2O3 (purple ▲). Conditions: catalyst 1/support, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = Ptotal = 1.27 atm, T = 200 °C.
3.4. Supported Carbonyl Complex as an Active Catalyst
In section 3.2, butane dehydrogenation conditions at temperatures above 300 °C led to the formation of a 31P MAS NMR signal consistent with the carbonyl complex 3/SiO2. This assignment was further examined by ATR FTIR. The spectra of as-prepared samples of 1, 1/SiO2, 3, and 3/SiO2 were examined for evidence of carbonyl stretching frequencies (Table 1). As expected, the ethylene complexes 1 and 1/SiO2 showed no carbonyl stretches. The molecular complex 3 showed a single intense peak at 1932 cm–1. Supported 3/SiO2 showed two signals; a weaker signal also at 1932 cm–1 possibly from physisorbed 3 and a stronger signal at 1945 cm–1 in good agreement with the reported C═O stretch of an authentic 3/SiO2 structure. (13)
Table 1. C–O Stretching Frequencies of Complexes in Solution and Adsorbed on SiO2
sample condition ν̃CO (cm–1) intensity
1 as prepared    
1/SiO2 as prepared    
3 as prepared 1932 strong
3/SiO2 as prepared 1932 weak
    1945 strong
        1/SiO2 postreaction at 200 °Ca    
1/SiO2 postreaction at 340 °Ca 1945 strong
aConditions: V̇Tot = 20 mL min–1, PButane = PTot = 1.27 atm, duration 1.5 h.
As the 201.2 ppm peak in the 31P MAS NMR was not observed after reaction at 200 °C, no carbonyl peak was expected in ATR FTIR either, and no peak was observed. Following reaction at 340 °C, a strong band at 1945 cm–1 corresponded well with the as-prepared and reference spectra, (13) providing further evidence that the catalyst was converted from the ethylene/olefin complex at lower temperatures to the carbonyl complex at higher temperatures under the reaction conditions, while the chelated pincer-Ir structure was maintained.
If the CO complex 3/SiO2 were formed in situ from olefin complex 1/SiO2 under the reaction conditions, at temperatures where the conversion 1/SiO2→ 3/SiO2 was complete, the activity of either precursor would be expected to be the same. Indeed, this can be seen in Figure 10. At 340 °C, where the 31P MAS NMR spectrum showed only carbonyl complex present, the activities of both precursors were the same. Interestingly, under identical temperature profiles, the decomposition profiles at temperatures above 340 °C, where activity was unstable, also fully coincided. Again, this points to identical molecular species present, even at 440 °C, which rapidly lose activity by the same deactivation mechanism with the same deactivation kinetics. However, at temperatures below 340 °C, the activity of the carbonyl complex was significantly lower than that of the olefin complex. The much higher expected binding affinity of carbon monoxide for the iridium center relative to ethylene (or other light olefin) presumably explains this. The active catalyst species in either case is the 14-electron complex with a coordination site opened by ligand dissociation. (9,33) Both 1/SiO2 and 3/SiO2 can lose their respective small ligands to generate this species (Figure 11), but ethylene is much more labile than carbon monoxide. Importantly, the composition of the catalyst appears to be uniform even at the highest temperatures at which stable activity is observed. This is in contrast to results reported with 2/SiO2, which forms two major species upon exposure to carbon monoxide—the four-coordinate iridium(I) carbonyl species as well as the six-coordinate iridium(III) species [IrH(OSi−)(CO)(POCOP)], which possesses a phosphorus resonance at 159 ppm. (26) This latter species is presumably formed first, followed by reductive elimination over the course of 15 h to attain 60–70% conversion to the four-coordinate carbonyl complex in what is a kinetically slow process. Since no signals for six-coordinate grafted complex are observed in the IR or NMR spectra of the spent catalysts collected in this work, even when the catalysts are collected less than 1 h after reaction, this serves as further evidence that both 1 and 3 are quantitatively converted to, and remain as, their para-supported analogues 1/SiO2 and 3/SiO2 with no oxidation of the iridium center.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Comparison of dehydrogenation activities of 1/SiO2 (blue ▲) with those of 3/SiO2 (green ●) from 200 to 440 °C. Conditions: V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Conversion of 1/SiO2 to 3/SiO2 at 300 °C under butane, both 16-electron Ir(I) complexes. Both 1/SiO2 and 3/SiO2 serve as reservoirs for the 14-electron active species.
At high temperature, the conversion to carbonyl complex is complete, and at such temperatures the dissociation of CO is facile enough to allow catalysis. At each relevant temperature, the species present on starting from the ethylene complex are active enough to reach equilibrium. Starting with the CO complex, optimal activity is not seen until 340 °C. However, as carbonyl complexes deactivate in the presence of O2, N2, and H2O much more slowly than the corresponding ethylene complexes, they offer other practical benefits, such as easier handling of supported pincer complexes without concern for air contamination. This property was exploited in the present study during BET analysis, for example. 3/SiO2 was found to be air stable on the order of days to weeks, as evidenced by a color change from oxidation. In contrast, oxidation took only minutes for 1/SiO2. Accidental exposure of 1/SiO2 to even minute quantities of air led to a visible color change and a loss of activity in catalytic tests.
Thus, 3/SiO2 is a significant step to a practical immobilized molecular catalyst. Air-resistant and stable at elevated temperatures, it may also be used for reactions in which the thermodynamics favor a higher temperature, including dehydrogenation. These applications would be impossible for solution-phase catalysts, which decompose rapidly at such temperatures.
The mechanism for conversion of the ethylene complex to the carbonyl complex is at present uncertain. It appears likely, however, that surface hydroxyl groups, resembling chemisorbed water species, may hydrate olefins to alcohols.
These alcohols would be readily dehydrogenated by the iridium catalyst, (34) yielding aldehydes and ketones containing a carbonyl functional group. Preliminary experiments showed that cofeeding propene and small quantities of water over supported pincer-iridium complexes formed acetone. As there are approximately 3000 SiOH groups per iridium atom, it is possible that a small number of these sites provide the oxygen needed to form CO via this mechanism.
3.5. Comparison of Supported Pincer Complexes at Elevated Temperatures
Previously, unsupported pincer-iridium complexes were found to be effective catalysts for gas–solid reactions in batch-type alkane transfer dehydrogenation reactions. (9) The complexes used (including 2) lacked functional groups that would lend themselves to covalent interaction with the glass reactor walls and so were presumably physisorbed on glass reactor walls. However, they remained catalytically active at 240 °C.
Our attempts to effect continuous gas-phase alkane dehydrogenation with physisorbed catalysts including 1 at similar temperatures were unsuccessful. Without a strong interaction with the support, the weakly bound catalyst leached from the reactor and could be found condensing at cold spots downstream of the reactor outlet (approximately 110 °C). This limits the effectiveness of a physisorbed catalyst for batch-type operation, where it is contained in the reactor.
To compare the activity and stability of supported and unsupported (physisorbed) catalysts at 340 °C, a batch-type acceptorless dehydrogenation reaction was studied. Sealed glass ampules of dodecane with silica-supported catalyst (1/SiO2, 2/SiO2) and with unsupported catalyst (1 and 2) were heated to 340 °C for 30 min or 20 h. At this high temperature, all of the dodecane evaporated, yielding conditions similar to those reported for alkane transfer dehydrogenation in ref (9), albeit 100 °C higher in temperature. Samples of silica-supported and solution-phase 1 and 2 were heated to 340 °C in sealed glass ampules for 30 min or 20 h. Following reaction, the reaction mixtures were condensed, the ampules were opened inside a glovebox, and concentrations of products were quantified by GC. The remaining solution was evaporated under vacuum, and fresh dodecane was added. The ampules were resealed and heated to 340 °C for an additional 30 min. The initial loading of catalyst was 1 mM in dodecane for the unsupported catalysts and an equivalent molar loading of iridium for supported catalysts.
In addition to dodecenes (the primary product from dodecane dehydrogenation), secondary reaction products were present in all reaction samples (Figure 12). The general reaction scheme to produce these products is summarized in Figure 13. The initial dehydrogenation of dodecane produces dodecenes and molecular hydrogen. Cracking products of dodecenes, including pentenes and heptenes, were found in all samples. Hydrogen from the dehydrogenation step would hydrogenate the lighter olefins, yielding their corresponding alkanes. Figure 12 illustrates the concentrations of dodecene and the C2–C11 alkanes and alkenes formed from cracking dodecene.
Figure 12
Figure 12. C2–C11 alkanes (red bar), C2–C11 olefins (green bar), and dodecenes (blue bar) from dehydrogenation of dodecane at 340 °C. Runs with 1/SiO2, 2/SiO2, 1 in the absence of silica, 2 in the absence of silica, and control (no pincer-iridium catalyst or silica): (a) 30 min reaction time; (b) 30 min recycle with same catalyst sample used in (a); (c) 20 h reaction time; (d) 30 min recycle with same catalyst sample used in (c). Conditions: 1 mM iridium catalyst in solution equivalent, 6.7 mg of SiO2 where present, [dodecane]0 = 4.4 M.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Proposed dehydrogenation–cracking–hydrogenation scheme explaining the distribution of products in dodecane dehydrogenation.
Control experiments without any catalyst or silica showed very little product formation after 30 min. After 20 h, a small amount of light olefin and alkane had formed, possibly from thermal cracking of dodecane at 340 °C. The same yield of these lighter hydrocarbons was obtained in the 20 h experiments where silica was placed in the reactor, suggesting that the surface area did not affect the rate of alkane cracking. The dodecane cracking mechanism must therefore be homogeneous in the gas phase. The small concentrations of cracking products in neat dodecane and in the presence of silica reveal that the homogeneous dodecane cracking rate is small and that silica is essentially inert.
After 30 min of reaction (Figure 12a), supported catalysts 1/SiO2 and 2/SiO2 had both reached the same yield of 100 mM of dodecene, with very small quantities of lower olefins and alkanes. The near-identical concentrations reached by these dissimilar species likely indicates that equilibrium was reached between dodecane and dodecene/hydrogen in 30 min. The unsupported catalysts 1 and 2 were unable to reach this same concentration within 30 min of reaction, due to either lower reaction rates or loss of activity at 340 °C. The low concentrations of C2–C11 olefins and alkanes were comparable to those in the control experiment, and the rate of dodecene cracking was small. A recycle experiment carried out by removing the reaction mixture and replacing it with fresh dodecane revealed that the unsupported catalyst had indeed completely deactivated at 340 °C, with activity upon recycle no better than that of the control experiment without any catalyst (Figure 12b). These samples contained black, insoluble material on the walls of the ampules, consistent with catalyst decomposition observed in other reaction systems. Both supported catalysts had reached the same concentration of dodecene, indicating that they both retained activity. The amount of dodecene formed was less after the recycle in comparison to fresh catalyst by approximately a factor of 3.
As an Ir(III) complex, 2/SiO2 is not expected to be highly active for alkane dehydrogenation. However, it is known that the Ir(III) species 2/SiO2 can reductively eliminate the surface hydroxyl group to which it is bound, regenerating the Ir(I) species 2, (17,25) which is present as a reaction product and accumulates in the sealed reactor. This small amount of free 2 is likely responsible for the catalytic activity, which over 30 min of reaction after recycle appears as effective as in 1/SiO2.
Both supported catalysts were less effective upon recycle in comparison to fresh reaction. Since 1/SiO2 showed activity at 340 °C over 3 days (Figure 5), the loss of activity is unlikely to arise from catalyst decomposition during the course of the reaction. Instead, the likely source of the activity loss is an artifact of batch-type operation, where the products accumulate in the presence of the catalyst, in comparison to continuous operation, where the products are removed in the gas flow. The accumulation of olefin product could possibly lead to a loss of activity either by leading to coke formation or through overbinding in the case of product olefins binding to iridium more strongly than ethylene. In general, dienes would be expected to bind to iridium centers more strongly than monoenes, and small quantities of dienes were formed during the reactions, enough to poison the low catalyst loading. To determine if dienes were responsible for inhibiting the reaction, reactions were carried out with piperylene added to the reactant mixture with fresh 1/SiO2. No inhibition was observed, and the results were identical with those in Figure 12a. The likely candidate for the observed loss of activity upon recycling is therefore coke formation. As this contrasts with the continuous-flow gas-phase butane dehydrogenation (Figure 5), preventing the accumulation of coke precursors via continuous flow is an important consideration for stable activity.
The product distributions after 20 h of reaction (Figure 12c) were significantly different from those obtained after 30 min. Dodecene cracking was clearly a contributor at this longer reaction time, as hydrocarbons smaller than C12 were prevalent in the product mixtures. Cracking of dodecane, the parent alkane, was slow in contrast, as evidenced by the control reactions. Reactions without any catalyst and with silica only showed the same product distribution and lacked dodecene, as was observed after 30 min of reaction. The yield of lighter alkanes and olefins therefore must have originated from the slow alkane cracking reaction instead. In the presence of any iridium-containing catalyst, both dodecane and dodecene were present even after 30 min; thus, the much higher yield of lighter hydrocarbons suggests dodecene cracking as the source. Further, given the identical product distributions between silica and no catalyst, the silica was completely inert toward any reaction with dodecane and its cracking products, and thus any observed reaction occurred in the gas phase.
The equilibrium concentration of dodecenes reached after 30 min of reaction (Figure 12a) was surpassed at longer reaction times by cracking and subsequent hydrogenation (Figure 13). Thermal cracking of dodecene at 340 °C yields 2 equiv of lighter olefins. These lighter olefins may react either with H2 generated in the first reaction or with dodecane via transfer dehydrogenation. In either case, the alkenes are hydrogenated and the dehydrogenation of dodecane is promoted, giving rise to the higher dodecene concentration in Figure 12c in comparison to Figure 12a. The overall reaction is then the transformation of 2 equiv of dodecane to 1 equiv of dodecene and 2 equiv of lighter alkane. However, the rate of cracking is slow relative to dehydrogenation and is independent of catalyst, leading to similar results regardless of which catalyst is employed.
The high dodecene yield after 20 h on unsupported catalyst is unexpected, considering the total lack of activity observed in the recycle reaction following just 30 min of reaction at 340 °C. Most likely, the decomposition product from the unsupported catalysts retains some alkane dehydrogenation activity. Over 20 h, even this residual activity could be sufficient to reach the same or similar product distributions in comparison to the supported catalysts. This is especially plausible if the black particulate formed contained Ir metal clusters, which would be expected to be active for dodecane dehydrogenation, albeit slower than with molecular Ir(I) complexes. The net rate of formation of dodecene, beyond the initial dodecane/dodecene equilibrium, is limited by the rate of cracking, which as discussed above occurs independently of the catalyst. A 30 min recycle experiment was carried out on all samples following 20 h of reaction (Figure 12d), confirming that the activity of the active material following decomposition of the unsupported catalysts is insufficient to form any appreciable product concentration in 30 min.
This recycle experiment also revealed that 2/SiO2 was much less recyclable than 1/SiO2. The reductive elimination of SiO–H is required to convert 2/SiO2 to the catalytically active Ir(I) species 2, but this process led to the loss of two-thirds of the activity following 2 h reaction relative to the recycle following only 30 min reaction. In contrast, 1/SiO2 showed identical reaction rates in Figure 12b,d. The loss of activity, most likely from coke formation, in the first 30 min of reaction was not exacerbated in the following 19.5 h, and dodecene yield and product distribution were unchanged.
The activities of 1/SiO2 and 2/SiO2 were also compared for the continuous-flow gas-phase dehydrogenation of butane at 200 °C (Figure S5). Over the short duration of the experiment (ca. 75 min), the activity of 2/SiO2 appeared to be stable with time on stream, However, the rate of butene formation was lower than that over 1/SiO2 by a factor of 10. This is consistent with the different inherent activity expected for alkane dehydrogenation by Ir(I) and Ir(III) complexes.
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this work, a stable, continuous-flow gas-phase alkane dehydrogenation system making use of a supported pincer-iridium catalyst was developed. Anchoring via a covalent linkage at a backbone position avoided catalyst leaching over the course of the reaction while also eliminating decomposition pathways available in homogeneous catalytic systems. At 340 °C, rates as high as 200 h–1 were measured at very short contact times, and deactivation was negligible over time scales of several days. In comparison to batch studies, flow conditions allowed the catalyst to retain its activity better by avoiding coking arising from accumulation of the reaction products.
Even at this high temperature, the pincer-iridium moiety remained intact as determined by 31P MAS NMR spectroscopy. The starting supported olefin complex converted fully to the corresponding iridium carbonyl complex. Starting with either complex gave identical reactivities at high temperature, consistent with either species acting as a reservoir of the 14-electron, three-coordinate catalytically active fragment. This allowed the use of the carbonyl complex, a more air-stable catalyst than the olefin species, for reactions at higher temperatures.
Supporting Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b01497.
31P NMR of 3 in C6D6, 1H NMR of 3 in C6D6, 31P NMR of dihydride (4) and tetrahydride mixture in d8-toluene, 1H NMR of 4 in d8-toluene, color and appearance of catalyst, 31P MAS NMR of 4/SiO2, selectivity between butene isomers as a function of residence time and reaction temperature, and comparison of continuous-flow alkane dehydrogenation over 1/SiO2 and 2/SiO2 (PDF)
cs8b01497_si_001.pdf (392.78 kb)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system: http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Fuat E. Celik - Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 98 Brett Road, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, United States;  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5891-6375;  Email: fuat.celik@rutgers.edu
Authors
Boris Sheludko - Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology  and  Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 98 Brett Road, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, United States
Molly T. Cunningham - Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 98 Brett Road, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, United States
Alan S. Goldman - Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 98 Brett Road, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, United States;  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-2774-710X
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgments
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This work was supported by the NSF under the CCI Center for Enabling New Technologies through Catalysis (CENTC) Phase II Renewal (CHE-1205189). The authors thank Dr. Ashley M. Pennington for assistance in performing BET measurements and Rachel A. Yang for assistance in analyzing kinetic and spectroscopic data. The authors also thank Dr. Nagarajan Murali for assistance in collecting, processing, and interpreting solid-state MAS NMR spectra and Shinjae Hwang and Dr. Eric Garfunkel for collection and interpretation of XPS spectra.
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 34 other publications.
1Sattler, J. J.; Ruiz-Martinez, J.; Santillan-Jimenez, E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides. Chem. Rev. 2014, 114, 10613– 53,  DOI: 10.1021/cr5002436 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
2Wakamatsu, H.; Aruga, K. The Impact of the Shale Gas Revolution on the U.S. and Japanese Natural Gas Markets. Energy Policy 2013, 62, 1002– 1009,  DOI: 10.1016/j.enpol.2013.07.122 [Crossref], Google Scholar
3Wang, Q.; Chen, X.; Jha, A. N.; Rogers, H. Natural Gas From Shale Formation – the Evolution, Evidences and Challenges of Shale Gas Revolution in United States. Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 2014, 30, 1– 28,  DOI: 10.1016/j.rser.2013.08.065 [Crossref], Google Scholar
4Siirola, J. J. The Impact of Shale Gas in the Chemical Industry. AIChE J. 2014, 60, 810– 819,  DOI: 10.1002/aic.14368 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
5Jensen, C. M. Iridium PCP Pincer Complexes: Highly Active and Robust Catalysts for Novel Homogeneous Aliphatic Dehydrogenations. Chem. Commun. 1999, 0, 2443– 2449,  DOI: 10.1039/a903573g [Crossref], Google Scholar
6Gupta, M.; Hagen, C.; Flesher, R. J.; Kaska, W. C.; Jensen, C. M. A Highly Active Alkane Dehydrogenation Catalyst: Stabilization of Dihydrido Rhodium and Iridium Complexes by a P-C-P Pincer Ligand. Chem. Commun. 1996, 0, 2083– 2084,  DOI: 10.1039/CC9960002083 [Crossref], Google Scholar
7Huang, Z.; Rolfe, E.; Carson, E. C.; Brookhart, M.; Goldman, A. S.; El-Khalafy, S. H.; Roy MacArthur, A. H. Efficient Heterogeneous Dual Catalyst Systems for Alkane Metathesis. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2010, 352, 125– 135,  DOI: 10.1002/adsc.200900539 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
8Kumar, A.; Bhatti, T. M.; Goldman, A. S. Dehydrogenation of Alkanes and Aliphatic Groups by Pincer-Ligated Metal Complexes. Chem. Rev. 2017, 117, 12357– 12384,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00247 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
9Kumar, A.; Zhou, T.; Emge, T. J.; Mironov, O.; Saxton, R. J.; Krogh-Jespersen, K.; Goldman, A. S. Dehydrogenation of n-Alkanes by Solid-Phase Molecular Pincer-Iridium Catalysts. High Yields of alpha-Olefin Product. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 9894– 911,  DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5b05313 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
10Alt, H. G.; Böhmer, I. K. Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Isopentane with Iridium Catalysts. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 2619– 2621,  DOI: 10.1002/anie.200704856 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Taubmann, S.; Alt, H. G. Heterogeneous Catalysts for the Dehydrogenation of Saturated Hydrocarbons. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2008, 287, 102– 109,  DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2008.02.023 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
12Böhmer, I. K.; Alt, H. G. Influence of Triphenylphosphine on the Activity of Heterogeneous Iridium, Rhodium and Platinum Catalysts for the Dehydrogenation of Saturated Hydrocarbons. J. Organomet. Chem. 2009, 694, 1001– 1010,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jorganchem.2008.07.010 [Crossref], Google Scholar
13Huang, Z.; Brookhart, M.; Goldman, A. S.; Kundu, S.; Ray, A.; Scott, S. L.; Vicente, B. C. Highly Active and Recyclable Heterogeneous Iridium Pincer Catalysts for Transfer Dehydrogenation of Alkanes. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2009, 351, 188– 206,  DOI: 10.1002/adsc.200800615 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
14Bézier, D.; Brookhart, M. Applications of PC(sp3)P Iridium Complexes in Transfer Dehydrogenation of Alkanes. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 3411– 3420,  DOI: 10.1021/cs500892p [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
15Rimoldi, M.; Nakamura, A.; Vermeulen, N. A.; Henkelis, J. J.; Blackburn, A. K.; Hupp, J. T.; Stoddart, J. F.; Farha, O. K. A Metal-Organic Framework Immobilised Iridium Pincer Complex. Chem. Sci. 2016, 7, 4980– 4984,  DOI: 10.1039/C6SC01376G [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
16Rimoldi, M.; Fodor, D.; van Bokhoven, J. A.; Mezzetti, A. Catalytic Hydrogenation of Liquid Alkenes with a Silica-Grafted Hydride Pincer Iridium(III) Complex: Support for a Heterogeneous Mechanism. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 4575– 4586,  DOI: 10.1039/C5CY00837A [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
17Rimoldi, M.; Mezzetti, A. Batch and Continuous Flow Hydrogenation of Liquid and Gaseous Alkenes Catalyzed by a Silica-grafted Iridium(III) Hydride. Helv. Chim. Acta 2016, 99, 908– 915,  DOI: 10.1002/hlca.201600184 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
18Gottker-Schnetmann, I.; White, P. S.; Brookhart, M. Synthesis and Properties of Iridium Bis(phosphinite) Pincer Complexes (p-XPCP)IrH2, (p-XPCP)Ir(CO), (p-XPCP)Ir(H)(aryl), and {(p-XPCP)Ir}2{μ-N2} and Their Relevance in Alkane Transfer Dehydrogenation. Organometallics 2004, 23, 1766– 1776,  DOI: 10.1021/om030670o [ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
19Gottker-Schnetmann, I.; White, P. S.; Brookhart, M. Iridium Bis(phosphinite) p-XPCP Pincer Compexes: Highly Active Catalysts for the Transfer Dehydrogenation of Alkanes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 1804– 1811,  DOI: 10.1021/ja0385235 [ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
20Akporiaye, D.; Jensen, S. F.; Olsbye, U.; Rohr, F.; Rytter, E.; Ronnekleiv, M.; Spjelkavik, A. I. A Novel, Highly Efficient Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2001, 40, 4741– 4748,  DOI: 10.1021/ie010299+ [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
21Galvita, V.; Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Bell, A. T. Ethane Dehydrogenation on Pt/Mg(Al)O and PtSn/Mg(Al)O Catalysts. J. Catal. 2010, 271, 209– 219,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.01.016 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
22Biedron, A. B.; Garfunkel, E. L.; Castner, E. W., Jr; Rangan, S. Ionic Liquid Ultrathin Films at the Surface of Cu(100) and Au(111). J. Chem. Phys. 2017, 146, 054704,  DOI: 10.1063/1.4975101 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
23Nesbitt, H. W.; Banerjee, D. Interpretation of XPS Mn(2p) Spectra of Mn Oxyhydroxides and Constraints on the Mechanism of MnO2 Precipitation. Am. Mineral. 1998, 83, 305– 315,  DOI: 10.2138/am-1998-3-414 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
24Vicente, B. C.; Huang, Z.; Brookhart, M.; Goldman, A. S.; Scott, S. L. Reactions of Phosphinites with Oxide Surfaces: A New Method for Anchoring Organic and Organometallic Complexes. Dalton Trans. 2011, 40, 4268– 4274,  DOI: 10.1039/c0dt01369b [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
25Rimoldi, M.; Fodor, D.; van Bokhoven, J. A.; Mezzetti, A. A Stable 16-Electron Iridium(III) Hydride Complex Grafted on SBA-15: a Single-Site Catalyst for Alkene Hydrogenation. Chem. Commun. 2013, 49, 11314– 11316,  DOI: 10.1039/c3cc47296e [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
26Rimoldi, M.; Mezzetti, A. Silica-Grafted 16-Electron Hydride Pincer Complexes of Iridium(III) and Their Soluble Analogues: Synthesis and Reactivity with CO. Inorg. Chem. 2014, 53, 11974– 11984,  DOI: 10.1021/ic501593k [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
27Zhuravlev, L. T.; Potapov, V. V. Density of Silanol Groups on the Surface of Silica Precipitated From a Hydrothermal Solution. Russ. J. Phys. Chem. A 2006, 80, 1119– 1128,  DOI: 10.1134/S0036024406070211 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Dobereiner, G. E.; Crabtree, R. H. Dehydrogenation as a Substrate-Activating Strategy in Homogeneous Transition-Metal Catalysis. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 681– 703,  DOI: 10.1021/cr900202j [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Moulton, C. J.; Shaw, B. L. Transition Metal-Carbon Bonds. Part XLII. Complexes of Nickel, Palladium, Platinum, Rhodium and Iridium with the Tridentate Ligand 2,6-Bis[(di-t-butylphosphino)methyl]phenyl. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 1976, 0, 1020– 1024,  DOI: 10.1039/DT9760001020 [Crossref], Google Scholar
30Katrib, A.; Stanslaus, A.; Yousef, R. M. XPS Investigations of Metal-Support Interactions in Pt/SiO2, Ir/SiO2 and Ir/Al2O3 Systems. J. Mol. Struct. 1985, 129, 151– 163,  DOI: 10.1016/0022-2860(85)80201-5 [Crossref], Google Scholar
31Liu, F.; Goldman, A. S. Efficient Thermochemical Alkane Dehydrogenation and Isomerization Catalyzed by an Iridium Pincer Complex. Chem. Commun. 1999, 655– 656,  DOI: 10.1039/a900631a [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
32Zhu, K.; Achord, P. D.; Zhang, X.; Krogh-Jespersen, K.; Goldman, A. S. Highly Effective Pincer-Ligated Iridium Catalysts for Alkane Dehydrogenation. DFT Calculations of Relevant Thermodynamic, Kinetic, and Spectroscopic Properties. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 13044– 13053,  DOI: 10.1021/ja047356l [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Renkema, K. B.; Kissin, Y. V.; Goldman, A. S. Mechanism of Alkane Transfer-Dehydrogenation Catalyzed by a Pincer-Ligated Iridium Complex. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 7770– 7771,  DOI: 10.1021/ja0289200 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
34Morales-Morales, D.; Redon, R.; Wang, Z.; Lee, D. W.; Yung, C.; Magnuson, K.; Jensen, C. M. Selective Dehydrogenation of Alcohols and Diols Catalyzed by a Dihydrido Iridium PCP Pincer Complex. Can. J. Chem. 2001, 79, 823– 829,  DOI: 10.1139/v01-070 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
4
Mentioning
89
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 34 publications.
Sabrine M. Cypher, Magnus Pauly, Leslie G. Castro, Carrie L. Donley, Paul A. Maggard, Karen I. Goldberg. Ethanol Upgrading to n-Butanol Using Transition-Metal-Incorporated Poly(triazine)imide Frameworks. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (30) , 36384-36393. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.3c07396
Zoha H. Syed, Mohammad Rasel Mian, Roshan Patel, Haomiao Xie, Zihan Pengmei, Zhihengyu Chen, Florencia A. Son, Timothy A. Goetjen, Alon Chapovetsky, Kira M. Fahy, Fanrui Sha, Xingjie Wang, Selim Alayoglu, David M. Kaphan, Karena W. Chapman, Matthew Neurock, Laura Gagliardi, Massimiliano Delferro, Omar K. Farha. Sulfated Zirconium Metal–Organic Frameworks as Well-Defined Supports for Enhancing Organometallic Catalysis. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (37) , 16883-16897. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c05290
Alice Johnson, Cameron G. Royle, Claire N. Brodie, Antonio J. Martínez-Martínez, Simon B. Duckett, Andrew S. Weller. η2-Alkene Complexes of [Rh(PONOP-iPr)(L)]+ Cations (L = COD, NBD, Ethene). Intramolecular Alkene-Assisted Hydrogenation and Dihydrogen Complex [Rh(PONOP-iPr)(η-H2)]+. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (18) , 13903-13912. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c03687
Alexander J. Bukvic, Arron L. Burnage, Graham J. Tizzard, Antonio J. Martínez-Martínez, Alasdair I. McKay, Nicholas H. Rees, Bengt E. Tegner, Tobias Krämer, Heather Fish, Mark R. Warren, Simon J. Coles, Stuart A. Macgregor, Andrew S. Weller. A Series of Crystallographically Characterized Linear and Branched σ-Alkane Complexes of Rhodium: From Propane to 3-Methylpentane. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (13) , 5106-5120. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c00738
Rachael M. Gitnes, Maggie Wang, Ying Bao, Margaret L. Scheuermann. In Situ Generation of Catalytically Relevant Nanoparticles from a Molecular Pincer Iridium Precatalyst during Polyol Deoxygenation. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (2) , 495-501. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03180
Boris Sheludko, Cristina F. Castro, Alan S. Goldman, Fuat E. Celik. Poison or Promoter? Investigating the Dual-Role of Carbon Monoxide in Pincer-Iridium-Based Alkane Dehydrogenation Systems via Operando Diffuse Reflectance Infrared Fourier Transform Spectroscopy. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (21) , 12425-12436. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c02406
Alasdair I. McKay, Alexander J. Bukvic, Bengt E. Tegner, Arron L. Burnage, Antonio J. Martı́nez-Martı́nez, Nicholas H. Rees, Stuart A. Macgregor, Andrew S. Weller. Room Temperature Acceptorless Alkane Dehydrogenation from Molecular σ-Alkane Complexes. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (29) , 11700-11712. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b05577
Zoha H. Syed, David M. Kaphan, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Magali S. Ferrandon, Evan C. Wegener, Gokhan Celik, Jianguo Wen, Cong Liu, Fulya Dogan, Karen I. Goldberg, Massimiliano Delferro. Electrophilic Organoiridium(III) Pincer Complexes on Sulfated Zirconia for Hydrocarbon Activation and Functionalization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (15) , 6325-6337. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b00896
Christian Schöttle, Erjia Guan, Alexander Okrut, Nicolás A. Grosso-Giordano, Andrew Palermo, Andrew Solovyov, Bruce C. Gates, Alexander Katz. Bulky Calixarene Ligands Stabilize Supported Iridium Pair-Site Catalysts. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (9) , 4010-4015. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b13013
Xiaowen Chen, Xuetao Qin, Yueyue Jiao, Mi Peng, Jiangyong Diao, Pengju Ren, Chengyu Li, Dequan Xiao, Xiaodong Wen, Zheng Jiang, Ning Wang, Xiangbin Cai, Hongyang Liu, Ding Ma. Structure-dependence and metal-dependence on atomically dispersed Ir catalysts for efficient n-butane dehydrogenation. Nature Communications 2023, 14 (1) https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-38361-4
Cristina Megías-Sayago, Ignacio Centeno-Vega, Luis F. Bobadilla, Svetlana Ivanova, Nuria Rendón, Andrés Suarez. Alkane metathesis over immobilized pincer-ligated iridium complexes: Effect of support nature. Applied Catalysis B: Environmental 2023, 338 , 123002. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.123002
Frédéric A. Perras, Alejandra Arroyave, Scott A. Southern, Jessica V. Lamb, Yuting Li, Anne LaPointe, Massimiliano Delferro. Double-resonance 17 O NMR experiments reveal unique configurational information for surface organometallic complexes. Chemical Communications 2023, 59 (31) , 4604-4607. https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC00899A
Kaushik Chakrabarti, Alice Spangenberg, Vasudevan Subramaniyan, Andreas Hederstedt, Omar Y. Abdelaziz, Alexey V. Polukeev, Reine Wallenberg, Christian P. Hulteberg, Ola F. Wendt. Acceptorless dehydrogenation of 4-methylpiperidine by supported pincer-ligated iridium catalysts in continuous flow. Catalysis Science & Technology 2023, 396 https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CY00881A
Hongliu Wan, Nengfeng Gong, Lichen Liu. Solid catalysts for the dehydrogenation of long-chain alkanes: lessons from the dehydrogenation of light alkanes and homogeneous molecular catalysis. Science China Chemistry 2022, 65 (11) , 2163-2176. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-022-1415-x
Michaela König, Michael Traxler, Maik Alexander Rudolph, Johannes Schmidt, Hüseyin Küçükkeçeci, Reinhard Schomäcker, Arne Thomas. Anchoring an Iridium Pincer Complex in a Hydrophobic Microporous Polymer for Application in Continuous‐Flow Alkane Dehydrogenation. ChemCatChem 2022, 14 (18) https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202200811
Thomas Scattolin, Andreas Simoens, Christian V. Stevens, Steven P. Nolan. Flow chemistry of main group and transition metal complexes. Trends in Chemistry 2022, 4 (7) , 584-607. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trechm.2022.04.001
Karzan Mahmood Ahmed, Kamal Amani. Synthesis, characterization, and reactivity of a novel magnetically recyclable triazine‐based Cu– NNN –pincer complex. Applied Organometallic Chemistry 2022, 36 (5) https://doi.org/10.1002/aoc.6630
Alexey V. Polukeev, Reine Wallenberg, Jens Uhlig, Christian P. Hulteberg, Ola F. Wendt. Iridium‐Catalyzed Dehydrogenation in a Continuous Flow Reactor for Practical On‐Board Hydrogen Generation From Liquid Organic Hydrogen Carriers. ChemSusChem 2022, 15 (8) https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202200085
Weiyu Song, Yikun Kang, Min Yang, Zhi Li, Lulu Chen, Zhen Zhao, Jian Liu. Promoting propane dehydrogenation via strain engineering on iridium single-atom catalyst. Fuel 2022, 311 , 122580. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2021.122580
Hugo Valdés, Rebeca Osorio-Yañez, Ernesto Rufino-Felipe, David Morales-Morales. Organometallic Pincer Complexes of Cobalt, Rhodium, and Iridium. 2022, 816-867. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-820206-7.00145-1
Xuemei Zhou, George E. Sterbinsky, Eman Wasim, Linxiao Chen, Steven L. Tait. Tuning Ligand‐Coordinated Single Metal Atoms on TiO 2 and their Dynamic Response during Hydrogenation Catalysis. ChemSusChem 2021, 14 (18) , 3825-3837. https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202100208
Lichen Liu, Avelino Corma. Isolated metal atoms and clusters for alkane activation: Translating knowledge from enzymatic and homogeneous to heterogeneous systems. Chem 2021, 7 (9) , 2347-2384. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2021.04.001
Chunyi Li, Guowei Wang. Dehydrogenation of light alkanes to mono-olefins. Chemical Society Reviews 2021, 50 (7) , 4359-4381. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS00983K
Linxiao Chen, Iyad S. Ali, George E. Sterbinsky, Xuemei Zhou, Eman Wasim, Steven L. Tait. Ligand-coordinated Ir single-atom catalysts stabilized on oxide supports for ethylene hydrogenation and their evolution under a reductive atmosphere. Catalysis Science & Technology 2021, 11 (6) , 2081-2093. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CY01132K
Yingze Li, Jeanette A. Krause, Hairong Guan. POCOP-type cobalt and nickel pincer complexes bearing an appended phosphinite group. Canadian Journal of Chemistry 2021, 99 (2) , 147-153. https://doi.org/10.1139/cjc-2020-0137
Boris Sheludko, Cristina F. Castro, Chaitanya A. Khalap, Thomas J. Emge, Alan S. Goldman, Fuat E. Celik. Regioselective Gas‐Phase n ‐Butane Transfer Dehydrogenation via Silica‐Supported Pincer‐Iridium Complexes. ChemCatChem 2021, 13 (1) , 407-415. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202001399
Yingze Li, Joel D. Collett, Hairong Guan. Phosphorus-Based Pincer Ligands. 2021, 505-606. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08-102688-5.00078-7
Changho Yoo, Henry M. Dodge, Alexandra H. Farquhar, Kristen E. Gardner, Alexander J. M. Miller. Decarbonylative ether dissection by iridium pincer complexes. Chemical Science 2020, 11 (44) , 12130-12138. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0SC03736B
Michaela König, Massimo Rigo, Nicolas Chaoui, Trung Tran Ngoc, Jan Dirk Epping, Johannes Schmidt, Pradip Pachfule, Meng‐Yang Ye, Matthias Trunk, Johannes F. Teichert, Matthias Drieß, Arne Thomas. Immobilization of an Iridium Pincer Complex in a Microporous Polymer for Application in Room‐Temperature Gas Phase Catalysis. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2020, 59 (45) , 19830-19834. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202004092
Michaela König, Massimo Rigo, Nicolas Chaoui, Trung Tran Ngoc, Jan Dirk Epping, Johannes Schmidt, Pradip Pachfule, Meng‐Yang Ye, Matthias Trunk, Johannes F. Teichert, Matthias Drieß, Arne Thomas. Immobilization of an Iridium Pincer Complex in a Microporous Polymer for Application in Room‐Temperature Gas Phase Catalysis. Angewandte Chemie 2020, 132 (45) , 20002-20006. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202004092
Luca Piccirilli, Danielle Lobo Justo Pinheiro, Martin Nielsen. Recent Progress with Pincer Transition Metal Catalysts for Sustainability. Catalysts 2020, 10 (7) , 773. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal10070773
Takuya Shimbayashi, Ken-ichi Fujita. Iridium-Catalyzed Dehydrogenative Reactions. 2020, 1-65. https://doi.org/10.1007/3418_2020_56
Maitham H. Majeed, Payam Shayesteh, Per Tunå, Axel R. Persson, Roman Gritcenko, L. Reine Wallenberg, Lei Ye, Christian Hulteberg, Joachim Schnadt, Ola F. Wendt. Directed C−H Halogenation Reactions Catalysed by Pd II Supported on Polymers under Batch and Continuous Flow Conditions. Chemistry – A European Journal 2019, 25 (59) , 13591-13597. https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201902949
Kanu Das, Akshai Kumar. Alkane dehydrogenation reactions catalyzed by pincer-metal complexes. 2019, 1-57. https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.adomc.2019.02.004
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Molecular catalyst species (1–4) prepared and supported on SiO2 in the present study and expected structures for covalently anchored supported molecular catalysts from chemisorption (1/SiO2–4/SiO2). The silica surface is represented by one SiO4 tetrahedron.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Solution-phase 31P NMR of (a) 1 and (h) 3 in C6D6. Solid-state 31P MAS NMR of freshly supported (b) 1/SiO2 and (g) 3/SiO2, and (c–f) 1/SiO2 following continuous butane dehydrogenation for 1.5 h at 200, 250, 300, and 340 °C, respectively. Spinning sidebands are denoted with asterisks. The symbol ≠ denotes the conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, and Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Catalyst activity as a function of temperature: (a) 200–340 °C; (b) 360–440 °C. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Figure 4
Figure 4. P(2p) and Ir(4f) regions of XPS spectra of as-prepared 1/SiO2 compared with those of a sample after exposure to reaction conditions at 440 °C for 3 days. Conditions: V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Catalyst activity as a function of time on stream. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 5 mL min–1, Pbutane = Ptotal = 1.27 atm, T = 340 °C.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Effect of space time on catalyst activity and conversion. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, T = 340 °C, V̇otal = 4–100 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Effect of butane partial pressure at varying temperature and space time. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, at T = 200 °C (blue ■) (values ×100) and 340 °C (green ■), V̇total = 20–32 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32–2 atm, PHe = 0.95–0 atm, PTot = 1.27–2 atm. The curves fit to half-order power law functions.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Effect of temperature on selectivity between 200 and 340 °C: (blue ■) 1-butene; (orange ■), trans-2-butene; (green ■); cis-2-butene. Dashed lines indicate the expected product distributions from equilibrium calculations. Conditions: catalyst 1/SiO2, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm, T = 200–340 °C.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Comparison of 1-butene formation rates on support of 1 on SiO2 (green ●), Mg(Al)O (blue ■), and Al2O3 (purple ▲). Conditions: catalyst 1/support, V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = Ptotal = 1.27 atm, T = 200 °C.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Comparison of dehydrogenation activities of 1/SiO2 (blue ▲) with those of 3/SiO2 (green ●) from 200 to 440 °C. Conditions: V̇total = 20 mL min–1, Pbutane = 0.32 atm, PHe = 0.95 atm, Ptotal = 1.27 atm.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Conversion of 1/SiO2 to 3/SiO2 at 300 °C under butane, both 16-electron Ir(I) complexes. Both 1/SiO2 and 3/SiO2 serve as reservoirs for the 14-electron active species.
Figure 12
Figure 12. C2–C11 alkanes (red bar), C2–C11 olefins (green bar), and dodecenes (blue bar) from dehydrogenation of dodecane at 340 °C. Runs with 1/SiO2, 2/SiO2, 1 in the absence of silica, 2 in the absence of silica, and control (no pincer-iridium catalyst or silica): (a) 30 min reaction time; (b) 30 min recycle with same catalyst sample used in (a); (c) 20 h reaction time; (d) 30 min recycle with same catalyst sample used in (c). Conditions: 1 mM iridium catalyst in solution equivalent, 6.7 mg of SiO2 where present, [dodecane]0 = 4.4 M.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Proposed dehydrogenation–cracking–hydrogenation scheme explaining the distribution of products in dodecane dehydrogenation.

</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
