I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Defect-Rich TiO2In Situ Evolved from MXene for the Enhanced Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane to Ethylene
Abstract
Selective oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of light alkanes to alkenes over metal oxides usually obeys a redox catalysis cycle, where the release and recovery of lattice oxygen play a key role in catalytic performance. Therefore, it remains a challenge to prepare metal oxides with limited reducibility, such as TiO2, as a dominant active component rather than as a support or modifier in this process. Here, we find a significant increase of ethane ODH performance over a layered TiO2 (M-TiO2) catalyst, which is in situ evolved from a Ti3C2Tx MXene material during the reaction. The reactivity of this M-TiO2 is 4 times higher than that of P25 TiO2, with an excellent ethylene productivity of 15.4 gC2H4 gcat1 h1 that outperforms the previously reported catalysts. Experimental characterizations and theoretical calculations reveal the importance of Ti and oxygen vacancy defects over M-TiO2 on the conversion of C2H6. The Ti vacancy sites can stabilize the defective structure and increase the reducibility of lattice oxygen to reduce the activation energy barrier of ethane, while the oxygen vacancy sites facilitate the activation of O2 to recover lattice oxygen.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:oxidative dehydrogenation ethylene MXene TiO2 defect sites
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Ethylene (C2H4) is one of the most fundamental building blocks in the chemical industry for the synthesis of various chemical products. (1,2) The industrial manufacture of ethylene is mainly by steam cracking of naphtha and ethane, which is performed at high temperatures (>800 C) due to the thermodynamic constraint of this process. Moreover, steam cracking for ethylene production is an energy-intensive process while suffering from raw material loss through coke formation and emissions of a large amount of environmentally harmful gases (CO2 and NOx). (3,4) Especially, per ton of ethylene production can lead to 1.53.0 tons of CO2 emissions. (5,6) In recent years, the increasing demand for light alkenes has stimulated the development of more economic and environmentally friendly routes. (7,8) Therein, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of ethane to ethylene is a thermodynamically favorable process with lower energy costs and fewer greenhouse-gas emissions. (9,10) Consequently, the ODH route has been proposed as one of the most attractive alternatives to the current industrial practice of steam cracking, particularly along with the vast exploration of shale gas resources. (11,12)
Metal-oxide catalysts are widely studied in the ODH of ethane to ethylene for their adjustable surface properties from metal coordination environment or redox properties. (1,13) Herein, the ones with good reducibility, such as V-based, Mo-based, and Ni-based materials, are preferred due to facile reducible oxygen species for ethane conversion. (1417) Typically, the MoVTeNb oxide with crystalline M1/M2 phases is a promising catalyst in the ODH of ethane due to its highly active V and Mo sites and the synergistic effect of different elements. (5,13,18) In these types of catalysts, a classical Marsvan Krevelen process through the consumption and replenishment of reducible lattice oxygen usually plays a dominant role. (1,14) Therefore, the introduction of metal oxides with excellent oxygen storage and release capacity is regarded as an effective strategy to improve catalytic performance. For instance, the Ce-incorporated MoVTeNbO and CexZr1xO2-modified NiNbO catalysts exhibit much higher ethylene productivity than substrate catalysts due to the increased redox properties. (19,20) In contrast, a metal oxide with limited reducibility, for example, TiO2, to the best of our knowledge, is never considered as a host active component in the ODH of light alkanes due to its undesirable performance. Instead, it only serves as a support for the dispersion of active species or just acts as a modifier to improve the ODH performance. (15,2123)
In the present work, we find an effective TiO2 catalyst with a layered structure (denoted M-TiO2) for the ODH of ethane to ethylene, which is in situ-derived from the Ti3C2Tx MXene with structure and composition evolution during the reaction. The Ti3C2Tx MXene material is a typical representative of newly emerged two-dimensional (2D) layered transition-metal carbides. (2426) The applications of this material in the catalysis area have gained increasing interest due to the obvious difference from conventional metals or metal oxides. (2630) In addition, the intrinsic defective structure of MXene can not only affect the geometrical, electronic, and optoelectronic properties but is also highly appealing to defect engineering for catalyst design. (31,32) Here, the Ti3C2Tx MXene acts as a precursor that facilitates the formation of M-TiO2 with the unique presence of abundant Ti and oxygen vacancy defects during the ODH reaction. Various experimental characterizations and density functional theory (DFT) calculations are exploited to reveal the role of these defects in the conversion of ethane over this M-TiO2 catalyst. It is quite different from traditional reducible oxides where the oxygen vacancy sites are essential for the recycling of oxygen species for the activation of ethane. Over this M-TiO2, the cationic Ti vacancy sites are identified to play a vital role in increasing the reducibility of lattice oxygen to decrease the activation energy barrier of ethane, and the resulting oxygen vacancy sites further facilitate the activation of O2 to recover lattice oxygen. This work highlights the importance of cationic defects over conventional metal oxides with limited reducibility to realize enhanced performance for the ODH reaction.
2. Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Synthesis
Commercial Ti3AlC2 MAX powder (98% in purity) was purchased from Beijing Forsman Technology Company. First, 5 g of Ti3AlC2 MAX powder was slowly added to 100 mL of 40% hydrofluoric acid (HF) with continuous magnetic stirring at 35 C for 24 h. Then, the acidic product was washed copiously with ultrapure H2O via centrifuging at 3500 rpm several times until pH > 6. The claylike sediment was collected and redispersed in 400 mL of ammonium hydroxide. The suspension was followed by sonication for 1 h for further delamination. After that, the suspension was centrifuged at 3500 rpm for 1 h, and the sediment was vacuum freeze-dried to obtain the layered structure of Ti3C2Tx MXenes. The M-TiO2 catalyst was obtained through the treatment of MXene under feed gas at 600 C for 2 h. In comparison, the commercial P25 TiO2 (P25), anatase TiO2 (A-TiO2), and rutile TiO2 (R-TiO2) were tested as references. P25, A-TiO2 (99.8%), and R-TiO2 (99.8%) were purchased from Aladdin Company. The reduced TiO2 (H-TiO2) catalyst was obtained by the treatment of P25 under pure H2 at 600 C for 6 h.
2.2. Catalytic Performance Testing
The ODH of ethane was carried out using a fixed bed reactor operating at atmospheric pressure. The catalyst (0.1 g) was loaded into the reactor tube (i.d. 8 mm) with glass wool as a support. Catalyst performance was evaluated in the temperature range from 550 to 600 C. The feed gases consisted of 10 vol % C2H6 and 5 vol % O2 with the balance He under a total flow rate of 30 mL min1. The reactants and products were analyzed online by gas chromatography using two columns equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). The columns included a Pora PLOT Q column for quantifying CH4, CO2, ethane, ethylene concentrations, and a molecular sieve 5 Å column for analyzing H2, O2, and CO concentrations. The ethane conversion (XC2H6) and product selectivity were calculated as follows
where [C2H6]in represents the molar concentration of C2H6 in the feed gases; [C2H6]out and [C2H4]out represent the molar concentrations of C2H6 and C2H4 in the products, respectively; [C1]out represents the molar concentrations of CH4, CO, and CO2 in the products, respectively.
The ethylene productivity (PC2H4) was calculated as follows
where FC2H6 represents the mass velocity of C2H6 in the feed gases (gC2H6 h1) and Mcat represents the mass of the catalyst.
2.3. Catalyst Characterization
X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurement was recorded on a PW3040/60 XPert PRO (PANalytical) diffractometer using a Cu Kα radiation source (λ = 0.15432 nm, 40 kV, 40 mA). The mean crystallite sizes of TiO2 in the samples were estimated using the Scherrer equation. In situ XRD patterns of Ti3C2Tx MXene during the ODH of ethane were measured at 600 C. The feed gases consisted of 10 vol % C2H6 and 5 vol % O2 with the balance He under a total flow rate of 30 mL min1. X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements of the sample were collected at 0, 20, 40, and 60 min.
Thermogravimetric (TG) analysis was conducted using an SDT Q600 in air at a constant flow rate of 60 mL min1. The measured temperature ranged from 50 to 900 C at intervals of 10 C min1. The products were detected with an on-line mass spectrometer (MS).
The morphology of the catalyst was detected on a JSM-7800F scanning electron microscope (SEM). High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images were obtained on a JEOL 2100FS STEM/TEM instrument.
H2-temperature programmed reduction (H2-TPR) experiments were performed on an Auto Chem II 2920 apparatus. Typically, 150 mg of catalyst was loaded into a U-shape quartz reactor and purged with Ar at 120 C for 1 h to remove physically adsorbed water. After cooling down the temperature to 50 C, the gas was switched to 10 vol % H2/Ar, and the catalyst was heated to 900 C at a ramping rate of 10 C min1. The amount of H2 consumption was calculated by the H2 peak area with a calibration curve of 10 vol % H2/Ar standard gas.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out on a VG ESCALAB210 apparatus using Al Kα (hν = 1486.6 eV) as the X-ray source. Binding energies were referenced to the C 1s peak that was set at 284.6 eV. The data were analyzed with commercially available software, CasaXPS.
The Raman spectra were acquired with a Jobin Yvon HR 800 dispersive Raman spectrometer. Approximately 50 mg of samples in the form of microcrystalline powder was pressed into a 10 mm diameter pellet. The Raman scattering was collected at room temperature in a static-scan mode in the 1001000 cm1 spectral region under excitation wavelength with laser excitation at 532 nm (HeNe laser).
Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) measurements were carried out at 77 K using a Bruker EPR A200 spectrometer with a 100 kHz magnetic field modulation. Quasi in situ EPR experiments were performed in a quasi in situ model using a quartz tube equipped with a greaseless high-vacuum stopcock. The samples (20 mg) were loaded into the U-shape reaction tube and exposed to 10 vol % C2H6 at 600 C for 0.5 h. Then, the EPR tube was sealed without air exposure and transferred for measurements at 77 K. After that, the sample was measured after it was subsequently treated with 5 vol % O2 and 10 vol % C2H6 at 600 C for 0.5 h.
2.4. Computational Method
All calculations were carried out using periodic DFT within the Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP). (33) The general gradient approximation (GGA) of PerdewBurkeErnzerhof (PBE) was employed for the exchangecorrelation functional. The projector augmented wave (PAW) method was used to describe the electroncore interactions with a kinetic energy cutoff of 450 eV. (34) The anatase TiO2(001) crystal face was selected as the computational reaction surface model according to the XRD results shown in Figure S3. Brillouin zones were sampled with a grid of 3 × 4 × 1 γ special k-point for the 1 × 2 × 1 anatase TiO2(101) surface. The built model consists of three atomic layers with a vacuum spacing of 15 Å in the perpendicular direction to avoid the lateral interactions between the ethane molecules and their images. The calculation systems were established with periodic boundary conditions. The convergence criterion for the electronic self-consistent cycle was fixed at 0.01 meV per cell. The geometry optimization was stopped when the forces on all unconstrained atoms were less than 0.05 eV Å1. The climbing-image nudged elastic band (CI-NEB) method (35) was used to calculate the energy barriers for the first step of dehydrogenation of ethane in the anatase TiO2(101) surface.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Induction Period of MXene for the ODH of Ethane
The Ti3C2Tx MXene is probably not a stable material for the ODH of ethane due to the inescapable oxidation of carbon species at high temperatures. Thermogravimetric (TG) analysis (Figure S1) shows that Ti3C2Tx can be completely oxidized at 600 C under an oxidation atmosphere. In the ODH of ethane, there is an interesting phenomenon about the reaction behavior of the Ti3C2Tx MXene material (Figure 1), which was expressed with the parameters of C2H6 conversion and product distribution along with the reaction time at 600 C. In the initial stage (IS) of ODH reaction, the ethane conversion increases, but the carbon balance is far above 100%. The extra carbon species in products are likely to come from the consumption of carbon species from the Ti3C2Tx MXene itself under high-temperature oxidation conditions, which may lead to the evolution of catalyst structures and catalytic performance during the reaction. Along the way, when the reaction lasts over 1 h, the ethane conversion and product selectivity tend to be stable. At that time, the carbon balance approaches 100%. It can be seen that the color of the catalyst changes from initially black to finally gray (Figure S2), which may be due to the combustion of C-containing species and the transformation of MXene into the TiO2 phase (M-TiO2) that would be confirmed in the following characterizations.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Catalytic behaviors of Ti3C2Tx MXene in the ODH of ethane at 600 C. C2H6/O2/He = 10:5:85; W/F = 0.2 g s mL1.
3.2. Catalyst Structure with Ti and Oxygen Vacancy Defects on M-TiO2
The in situ XRD characterization (Figure 2) during the ODH reaction shows the presence of diffraction peaks that are all attributed to Ti3C2Tx MXene originally. After the reaction lasting for 20 min, there is a sharply reduced peak intensity of MXene accompanied by the increased ones related to TiO2 phases, suggesting the appearance of evolved TiO2 species with the combustion of carbon species in MXene. Finally, the TiO2 phase is formed completely after a certain run time (1 h) of the ODH reaction. In detail, the resulting M-TiO2 exhibits mixed phases of anatase and rutile TiO2, (36) the composition of which is similar to that of commercial P25 (Figure S3). To demonstrate whether there is a residual Ti3C2Tx phase or carbon deposition over M-TiO2, thermogravimetric (TG) analysis with an on-line mass spectrometer (MS) detection was performed on the M-TiO2. As shown in Figure S4, there is negligible weight loss of sample and no production of CO2 under an air atmosphere, confirming the absence of residual MXene or carbon deposition over the resulting M-TiO2.
Figure 2
Figure 2. In situ XRD patterns of Ti3C2Tx MXene during the ODH of ethane at 600 C.
To show the unconventional structure of this M-TiO2, various characterizations were performed with P25 TiO2 (P25) as a comparison. Raman spectroscopy (Figure 3a) shows that both P25 and M-TiO2 exhibit the six Raman bands at 143 (Eg), 197 (Eg), 397 (B1g), 515 (A1g), 519 (B1g, superimposed with the A1g band), and 639 cm1 (Eg), corresponding to the typical bands of TiO2. (37) However, the peaks on M-TiO2 are broader and shift to a higher wavenumber compared with that on P25, which is supposed to result from the presence of oxygen vacancy defects. (37,38) The EPR spectra results (Figure 3b) exhibit the signals with g values of 2.002 and 1.970 on M-TiO2, which can be ascribed to oxygen vacancy and the accompanied Ti3+ species, respectively. (39,40) By contrast, almost no oxygen vacancy and Ti3+ species signals are observed on P25. These results demonstrate that there are plenty of oxygen vacancy defects over M-TiO2.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Raman spectra of M-TiO2 and P25; (b) EPR spectra of M-TiO2 and P25 at 77 K.
In addition to exhibiting the oxygen vacancy defects, the special structure of M-TiO2 was further identified by SEM/HRTEM and XPS characterizations. As shown in SEM images (Figure 4a,b), a typical layered morphology still remains over M-TiO2 due to the property of the MXene precursor. (28) In comparison, the commercial P25 (Figure 4c) shows a spherical morphology with smaller particle sizes. As seen in HRTEM images (Figure 4d,e), both M-TiO2 and P25 show the lattice fringes of anatase and rutile TiO2, consistent with XRD results. Nevertheless, there are obviously twisted lattice fringes and the disappeared diffraction spots (red circle) on M-TiO2 (Figures 4d1 and S5), which plausibly originate from the presence of abundant Ti vacancy defects on M-TiO2 evolved from the intrinsic feature of the MXene material. (31,32) Comparatively, this phenomenon is not observed on P25, suggesting the presence of a lower concentration of Ti vacancy defects than those of the layered M-TiO2. XPS spectra show that the binding energy of Ti 2p3/2 is 458.9 eV on P25, which can be ascribed to Ti4+ species (41,42) (Figure 5a). In comparison, this value decreases to 458.5 eV over M-TiO2, suggesting the presence of Ti3+ species, (41) which coincides with EPR results. Moreover, the XPS spectra of O 1s over P25 can be divided into two peaks located at 530.1 and 532.1 eV, belonging to TiO and TiOH species, respectively. (41,42) Comparatively, a new emerging peak of O 1s located at 531.0 eV appears over M-TiO2 (Figure 5b), which could be ascribed to the OH group at Ti vacancy defects (TivOH). (42) Combining these characterizations together, it is clearly demonstrated that the layered M-TiO2 evolved from MXene possesses abundant Ti and oxygen vacancy defects compared with P25.
Figure 4
Figure 4. SEM images of (a) MXene, (b) M-TiO2, and (c) P25 catalysts, respectively. HRTEM images of (d1d3) M-TiO2 and (e1e2) P25 catalysts.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Ti 2p and (b) O 1s XPS spectra of M-TiO2 and P25.
3.3. Remarkable Catalytic Performance of the Evolved M-TiO2
The resultant M-TiO2 was then tested in the ODH of ethane from 550 to 600 C. The commercial P25, anatase TiO2 (A-TiO2), and rutile TiO2 (R-TiO2) were also investigated for comparison. In the previous work, TiO2 cannot serve as an active phase due to its intrinsically low reactivity in the ODH of ethane. (6) Nevertheless, it can be found that this M-TiO2 catalyst exhibits obviously higher performance than P25, R-TiO2, and A-TiO2 (Figure 6a). For example, the yield of ethylene is 29% on M-TiO2 (41% ethane conversion with 70% ethylene selectivity, Figure S6) at 590 C, which is more than 4 times higher than that of 6.6% on P25 (12% conversion with 55% selectivity). At a similar ethane conversion, ethylene selectivity over M-TiO2 is also superior to that over other TiO2 (Figure S7). The total selectivity to C2H4, CO, and CH4 is more than 96%, along with the remaining CO2 below 4% on M-TiO2 (Figure S8). Moreover, the consumption of oxygen over M-TiO2 reaches up to 96% at 600 C, which is higher than that over other TiO2 (Figure S9). These results demonstrate that C2H6 can be effectively converted to C2H4 over a specific TiO2, an oxide that is conventionally recognized as a modifier or support in the ODH of ethane. (15,21)
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Ethylene yield as a function of reaction temperature on the M-TiO2, P25, R-TiO2, and A-TiO2 catalysts; C2H6/O2/He = 10:5:85, W/F = 0.2 g s mL1. (b) Comparison of M-TiO2 with previously reported catalysts in terms of ethylene productivity and reaction temperature. (c) Stability test on M-TiO2 at 590 C. C2H6/O2/He = 10:5:85, W/F = 0.2 g s mL1.
The intrinsically high performance of M-TiO2 is further demonstrated by introducing various concentrations of ethane. As shown in Figure S10, the productivity of C2H4 increases obviously with the C2H6 concentration at 600 C, which implies that M-TiO2 can work well under the practical high reactant concentration. On further increasing the weight hourly space velocity and reaction temperature, the C2H4 productivity can reach as high as 15.4 gC2H4 gcat1 h1 on M-TiO2 (Table S1). Notably, although the reaction temperature of M-TiO2 is higher than that of the typical redox oxides such as MoVTeNbO or NiNbO at 400 C (Table S1), (13,43) the performance of M-TiO2 is significantly improved in comparison with the traditional TiO2 in the ODH of ethane. Moreover, the C2H4 productivity over M-TiO2 is superior to the previously reported catalysts, as shown in Figure 6b, despite different reaction conditions, even containing the noble metal and BN catalysts. (44) It also surpasses the minimum value of 1 gC2H4 gcat1 h1 required for potential practical application. (45) The stability of the resultant M-TiO2 catalyst was investigated for the potential practical application. As shown in Figure 6c, the ethane conversion and the ethylene selectivity and yield keep rather stable values during a 50 h time-on-stream run. These results indicate the stable structure and high performance of M-TiO2 in the ODH reaction.
3.4. Role of Ti and Oxygen Vacancy Defects of M-TiO2 in the ODH Reaction
The surface areas of M-TiO2, P25, R-TiO2, and A-TiO2 are 11, 57, 31, and 98 m2 g1, respectively. It seems that the catalytic activity of TiO2 is not directly related to the surface area of different kinds of TiO2, suggesting that the surface area is not the dominant factor to affect reactivity in the ODH of ethane. To determine the role of Ti and oxygen vacancy defects of M-TiO2 in the ODH of ethane, quasi in situ EPR experiments were conducted. As shown in Figure 7a, the signals of oxygen vacancy are intensified obviously when M-TiO2 is treated with C2H6. It suggests that the lattice oxygen of M-TiO2 is facilely extracted, which can react with C2H6 and generate more oxygen vacancy sites. Upon further O2 treatment, the intensities of these signals over M-TiO2 become very weak, indicating the facile adsorption and activation of O2 in oxygen vacancy to complement lattice oxygen. Subsequently, the treatment of C2H6 results in the recurrence of oxygen vacancy signals. The quasi in situ EPR results over M-TiO2 show the typical redox cycle with the emergence and disappearance of oxygen vacancy defects under different reaction atmospheres, which present a similar property of metal oxides with good reducibility. In comparison, we also did the same experiments on P25. It can be seen that the signals of oxygen vacancy and Ti3+ species over P25 are very weak when they are alternatively treated with C2H6 or O2 despite a cyclic process similar to that on M-TiO2 (Figure 7b). It indicates that the lattice oxygen species over P25 are difficult to participate in the ODH reaction due to the limited reducibility. The H2-TPR results demonstrate the presence of a more reducible lattice oxygen on M-TiO2 than on P25. As shown in Figure S11, the hydrogen consumption on M-TiO2 is 320 μmol gcat1, which is much higher than that (55 μmol gcat1) on P25. When M-TiO2 was first treated with 5% O2 at 600 C for 0.5 h, the quantity of hydrogen consumption over the oxidized M-TiO2 increased to 609 μmol gcat1 (Figure S11), demonstrating the presence of a more reducible oxygen species that can participate in the ODH reaction. Taking the abundant Ti vacancy sites over M-TiO2 into consideration, the increased reducibility of lattice oxygen and the facile redox process are presumably attributed to the effect of Ti vacancy defects on M-TiO2.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Quasi in situ EPR spectra of (a) M-TiO2 and (b) P25 after the subsequent treatment with various gases: (1) feed gas, (2) 10 vol % C2H6/He, (3) 5 vol % O2/He, and (4) 10 vol % C2H6/He at 600 C for 0.5 h.
To highlight the importance of Ti vacancy defects of M-TiO2, the reduced TiO2 (denoted H-TiO2), known for the presence of oxygen vacancy defects, was also synthesized as a comparison. (27,40) The H-TiO2 catalyst was prepared by the reduction of P25 with pure H2 at 600 C for 6 h. As shown in Figure 8, the EPR signal shows the presence of oxygen vacancy defects over H-TiO2, which is much higher than that on P25. However, the conversion of ethane decreases from 14 to 11% over H-TiO2 during 3 h in the ODH of ethane, which is not improved compared with that on fresh P25, and still much lower than that on M-TiO2, Table S2. EPR results of H-TiO2 after the ODH reaction show the disappearance of oxygen vacancy signals (Figure 8), along with the variation of catalyst color from gray to white (Figure S12). The comparison between H-TiO2 and P25 demonstrates that even though H-TiO2 has a higher number of oxygen vacancy defects, they are unstable at oxidation conditions and do not make a positive contribution to ethane conversion. In comparison, the MXene precursor is synthesized by the etching of Al layers from the Ti3AlC2 MAX phase using hydrofluoric acid (HF). Some Ti atoms can be etched out during the corrosion, which results in the presence of abundant Ti vacancy defects. (31,46) These defects can be reserved under a reaction atmosphere during the evolution to M-TiO2 with layered structure retained (Figures 2 and 4), which possess good stability in the ODH of ethane. Combining the quasi in situ EPR experimental results (Figures 7 and 8), it is clearly suggested that over the TiO2 catalyst, the Ti vacancy defects play a dominant role in affecting catalytic performance in comparison to oxygen vacancy defects. The Ti vacancy sites can not only increase the reducibility of M-TiO2 but also stabilize the defective structure to improve the catalytic performance.
Figure 8
Figure 8. EPR spectra of fresh, reduced P25 TiO2 (H-TiO2), and spent H-TiO2 catalysts at 77 K.
Furthermore, we found that the pretreatment atmosphere can significantly affect the transformation of MXene. As shown in Figure 9a, the Ti3C2Tx MXene precursor is totally converted to TiO2 but with only anatase phase (denoted M-A-TiO2) under an air atmosphere, which coincides with the previous work. (26) Notably, C2H6 conversion of this M-A-TiO2 is similar to that of the A-TiO2 catalyst, which is much inferior to that of M-TiO2 (Figure 9b). EPR characterization (Figure 9c) shows that the signal of oxygen vacancy on M-A-TiO2 is much weaker than that on M-TiO2. Meanwhile, there is no presence of twisted lattice fringes on this M-A-TiO2 through HRTEM detections (Figure 9d), further demonstrating fewer Ti and oxygen vacancy sites on M-A-TiO2. It was reported previously that the thermal treatment on a Ti-based precursor under low oxygen conditions benefited the creation of Ti vacancy defects, (29) which may be attributed to the slow structure transformation to retain the intrinsic Ti defects from MXene. Moreover, the pretreatment by feed gases can possibly produce special active sites or species over catalysts. For instance, in our previous work, the formation of BO(H) species on the BN material after the treatment of feed gases benefited to improve the catalytic reactivity in the ODH of ethane. (47) The calcination of FeOx/C under a CO atmosphere resulted in the exposure of more Fe3O4(111) planes, which exhibited a superior catalytic activity for CO oxidation. (48) In this work, it is found that the reserved Ti vacancy defects on the in situ-derived M-TiO2 play an essential role in improving the reducibility of lattice oxygen and enhancing the catalytic performance in the ODH of ethane.
Figure 9
Figure 9. (a) X-ray diffraction patterns of M-TiO2 and M-A-TiO2. (b) Ethane conversion as a function of reaction temperature on the M-TiO2 and M-A-TiO2 catalysts; C2H6/O2/He = 10:5:85; W/F = 0.2 g s mL1. (c) EPR spectra of the M-A-TiO2 catalyst at 77 K. (d) Representative HRTEM image of M-A-TiO2.
To gain in-depth insights into the effects of Ti and oxygen vacancy defects on catalytic performance, density functional theory (DFT) calculations about the activation of ethane molecules were carried out. Two catalyst models with or without the Ti and oxygen vacancy defects on the anatase TiO2(101) surface were constructed (Figure S13), which can represent M-TiO2 and P25, respectively. It has been reported that the breakage of the first CH bond of ethane is essential in the ODH of ethane. (15,49) The lattice oxygen on the pure crystal face can capture the H atom from C2H6 to generate the C2H5* intermediate and HO* (C2H6 + O  C2H5* + HO*). As shown in Figure 10a, this process has an energy barrier of 1.21 eV on P25. In the presence of only oxygen vacancy defects, this reaction barrier slightly increases (Figure S14), which can explain a similar low catalytic performance of H-TiO2 (Table S2). In contrast, in the presence of Ti and oxygen vacancy defects (Figure 10b), the reaction barrier decreases significantly to 0.38 eV, which can effectively promote the activation of ethane and lead to enhanced reactivity on M-TiO2. The DFT calculations well reflect the reactivity trend of different TiO2, as shown in Figure 6a and Table S2. Thus, the special M-TiO2 rich in Ti and oxygen vacancy defects can serve as an efficient catalyst in the ODH of ethane.
Figure 10
Figure 10. DFT calculations of the first step in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane on (a) the pure crystal face and (b) the crystal face with Ti and oxygen vacancy defects of anatase TiO2(101) systems. IS, TS, and FS represent the initial state, transition state, and final state, respectively. White, red, gray, and light blue balls represent H, O, C, and Ti atoms, respectively. The red and light blue circles with the dotted line represent O and Ti vacancies, respectively.
3.5. Discussion on the ODH Reaction over M-TiO2
For the high-temperature and oxidative atmosphere during the ODH of light alkane, the structure evolution can exhibit unanticipated catalytic properties and aid in the discrimination of the real active centers under in situ reaction conditions. (47,50) In this work, the structure of MXene is evidently unstable under harsh conditions in the ODH of ethane. This material evolves to the TiO2 phase with a similar composition and structure as the traditional P25 but with abundant Ti and oxygen vacancy defects. The Ti vacancies can not only stabilize the defect structure but also effectively increase the reducibility of lattice oxygen to activate ethane. Then, the generated oxygen vacancy defects can promote O2 activation to recover lattice oxygen, realizing the cycle of oxidation and reduction processes. The synergistic functions of oxygen and Ti vacancies make the conventionally recognized limited-reducibility TiO2 a remarkable catalyst with good activity and stability for the ODH of ethane. Notably, this finding is quite different from that of the previous metal-oxide catalysts in the ODH of ethane, in which oxygen vacancy sites play an important role in ethane activation. It also differs from the non-metal-oxide catalysts such as the BN material, where the formation of surface BO(H) species can improve its catalytic performance. (47,51)
A schematic diagram of the structurefunction relationship on different TiO2 catalysts is displayed in Scheme 1. Conventional TiO2 is not preferred as an active component for the ODH of light alkanes due to the limited ability of lattice oxygen to participate in the reaction. (21,52) Even though the H-TiO2 possesses oxygen vacancy defects, these defects disappear at reaction conditions and exert no positive effect on the improvement of ethane conversion. Only the M-TiO2 evolved from the MXene precursor can exhibit outstanding performance as the facile utilization of oxygen species via the stable Ti and oxygen vacancy defects. It demonstrates that the cationic vacancy defects can alter the redox ability of TiO2 to act as an efficient catalyst for the ODH reaction, which is the plausible reason for the enhanced ethylene productivity through the facile consumption and replenishment of lattice oxygen.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Schematic Diagram of the StructureFunction Relationship over Different Catalystsa
aTv and Ov represent the Ti and oxygen vacancy defects, respectively.
Apart from the redox process over M-TiO2, ethane dehydrogenation or radical mechanism during the ODH process might exist. (53,54) The activity of M-TiO2 in the ethane dehydrogenation without the addition of oxygen was then measured. As shown in Figure S15, ethane conversion is only 0.35% at 600 C, which indicates that the contribution of ethane dehydrogenation to the reaction activity is negligible. On the other hand, as seen in Figure S8, the selectivity to methane over M-TiO2 is very low (<6%), and the main products in the ODH process are ethylene and COx despite a high temperature of 600 C. Moreover, the presence of oxygen and Ti vacancies can obviously increase the reducibility of M-TiO2 (Figure S11). The obvious redox property of M-TiO2 in the alternate treatment of either O2 or ethane (Figure 7) indicates the redox mechanism over M-TiO2 in the ODH of ethane. Moreover, it was reported that the redox process of ethane oxidation on metal oxides can also present the side product of CH4. (55) Therefore, it can be considered that the redox mechanism is dominant over M-TiO2 for the ODH of ethane.
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, we have developed a layered M-TiO2 with a P25-like phase in situ evolved from the Ti3C2Tx MXene precursor as a new type of efficient metal-oxide catalyst for the ODH of ethane. The M-TiO2 catalyst improves ethane conversion and ethylene yield more than 4 times compared with the commercial P25 catalyst and exhibits even higher ethylene productivity with good stability than the previously reported catalysts. Various characterization results demonstrate that the M-TiO2 catalyst possesses abundant Ti and oxygen vacancy defects compared with the reduced P25 or the TiO2 from MXene under an air atmosphere. The Ti vacancy sites can stabilize the defective structure under harsh reaction conditions and also increase the reducibility of TiO2 to decrease the activation energy barrier of ethane. Furthermore, the oxygen vacancy sites can facilitate the activation of oxygen and facile recycling of lattice oxygen species in the reaction. Therefore, M-TiO2 with Ti and oxygen vacancy defects exhibits outstanding performance in the ODH of ethane. This work highlights the importance of cationic vacancy defects to alter the redox ability of metal oxides, which gives a deep insight into the design of traditional metal oxides with unexpected performance through defect engineering.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 