<DOCUMENT>
Effects of Oxygen Vacancy and Pt Doping on the Catalytic Performance of CeO2 in Propane Dehydrogenation: A First-Principles Study
Main observation and conclusion
The catalytic properties of the CeO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are examined by employing the density functional theory calculations. Surface modifications and their effects on the surface reactivity are explored by creating the oxygen vacancy and single Pt atom doping. A comparative study between the binding energies of the different PDH reaction species reveals a considerable Lewis acid-base interaction over the pristine and defective surfaces, which dominantly strengthens the bond formation between the adsorbates and the catalyst surface, resulting in the enhancement of surface reactivity. The creation of oxygen vacancy and doping the CeO2(111) surface with single Pt atoms changes the charge distribution over the surface on account of excess 4f electrons. This electronic change increases the bond formation abilities of the inactive Ce atom and hence increases the adsorption strength. Oxygen vacancy in the defective CeO2(111) surface migrates over the surface with the addition of an appropriate adsorbate. Moreover, it is revealed that the propylene is more strongly adsorbed on the single-Pt-atom-doped CeO2(111) surface than the pristine and defective surfaces, which decreases the deep dehydrogenation energy barrier and ultimately results in the lowering of the selectivity.
Background and Originality Content
Petrochemical industry produces a wide range of significant chemical species that act as key building blocks for various organic/inorganic materials such as light olefins, alkenes and benzene. Among these, due to the escalated annual market demands over the past few years, light alkenes are the most essential petroleum products.[1] Historically, several routes like fluidized and catalytic cracking were employed for the on-purpose production of these light alkenes, which resulted in numerous useful petroleum by-products such as propylene.[1, 2] Propylene with its rapidly increasing market value in the global oil sector has stimulated the vital role of catalytic dehydrogenation as a more economical process than the other orthodox olefin production processes.[3] In particular, the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is now being used abundantly with some commercial catalysts, i.e., Al2O3-supported PtSn and CrOx, for the catalytic dehydrogenation.[3, 4]
Recently, some metal oxides like Ga2O3,[5-7] Cr2O3,[8] ZnO,[8, 9] V2O3,[10] and CeO2 [11] have also shown promising results for the PDH. The dehydrogenation reaction includes the C—H bond cleavage with the generation of H2 molecules.[12] However, the catalyst selectivity and stability are still challenging topics to be discussed, especially when dealing with the transition-metal oxide catalysts.[4, 13] It has been categorically demonstrated in previous studies that the catalytic properties of transition-metal oxides can be enhanced by creating the oxygen vacancies and doping the structure with stable transition metals such as Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Os, Ir, Pt, and Au.[8, 14-16] The reactivity of Cr2O3 and ZnO was changed by creating the oxygen vacancy, while it also serves as the active site.[8] Moreover, the oxygen vacancy, by changing significant properties in the catalyst structure, can enable the metal atoms to actively break the C—H bond and lead the surface to a more efficient catalytic action towards the C—H bond activation. Similar kind of behavior has been observed by Zhang et al.[17]
Devoted research on the catalytic activity of heterogeneous catalysis over the past few years, has made the single atom catalyst (SAC) an important factor in the propane dehydrogenation for possessing the advantage of well-defined active sites, high selectivity, and stability.[18] Furthermore, the surface free energy and specific activity of the catalyst increase as the size of the metal- supported catalyst is decreased from bulk to the single-atom.[19] There are some useful examples such as water-gas shift reaction, oxidation, and hydrogenation, where the single metal atom catalysts have played their catalytic role extensively.[20-22]
Although there is some work done previously over ceria-based catalysts such as Fe-CeO2,[23] NbOx/CeO2,[24] and CrOy-CeO2-K2O/ γ-Al2O3,[12] these experimental studies do not provide complete information about the effects of the change in the atomic structure on the adsorption behaviors of the dehydrogenated species and the C—H bond scission. Xiong et al.[25] provided some productive results indicating the lowering of the selectivity with reducing the dehydrogenation reaction barrier. However, a comprehensive study demonstrating the effects of the modification of electronic structures of the CeO2 surface and the bonding strength of the dehydrogenated species on the PDH reaction energy barriers was missing. In this contribution, we provide an atomic insight into the key factors affecting the selectivity of the CeO2 catalyst by examining the adsorption phenomena and bonding strength of the dehydrogenated species in light of DFT calculations. Furthermore, not only a comprehensive comparative analysis is performed between the findings on our CeO2(111) surface and by Xiong et al.,[25] but the effects of surface modifications such as oxygen vacancy creation and single Pt atom doping are also explored. The electronic structure of the CeO2 catalyst upon oxygen vacancy creation and doping with single Pt atoms is examined by using DFT calculations. As the main reaction is PDH, the species involved in this reaction are adsorbed over the catalyst surface to examine the binding energy and structural stability. This adsorption phenomenon also assists in understanding the Lewis acid-base interaction on catalyst surface with the Bader charge analysis. Furthermore, the charge density analysis enables to perform an effective analysis over the charge transfer. Consequently, our results are concluded in light of the DFT study performed on single metal atom doped CeO2 catalyst.
Results and Discussion
Structural model
Geometry optimization of bulk CeO2 was performed by the quasi-Newton algorithm having both the atomic coordinates and lattice vectors fully relaxed. The convergence limit for the forces on each atom was set to be 0.01 eV/A. The equilibrium bulk lattice parameter of 5.491 Å went well with the experimentally determined value (5.411 Å).[25]
Among all of the low-index surfaces of CeO2, CeO2(111) is regarded as the thermodynamically most stable one and commonly exposed surface of CeO2.[26] Our slab model of the CeO2(111) surface is represented as a p(2 × 2) supercell, a = 11.658 Å, b = 11.658 Å, and c = 19.932 Å, and the vacuum gap between two adjacent slabs was set to 12 Å (see Figure 1 for the top and side views of a unit layer). A (2 × 2) cell goes perfectly well with PDH reaction, as reported in previous works, and is appropriate for our surface model as well.[8, 25] Our CeO2(111) model contains a total of nine atomic layers, out of which bottom three atomic layers of crystal lattice were kept fixed during geometry optimization and transition state search. A (3 × 3 × 1) Monkhorst–Pack grid was employed for the sampling of k-points in the Brillouin zone.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Top and side views of (a) the pristine CeO2(111), (b) oxygen- deficient CeO2(111), and (c) Pt1-CeO2(111) surface. The shaded portions are active sites on the respective surfaces.
The oxygen-deficient surface was created by removing a neutral oxygen atom from the surface and then optimizing the structure of CeO2(111) surface. For the single Pt atom doping, there are two possible sites, i.e., cerium metal site and oxygen atom site. Our results showed that the single Pt atom is most stably doped in place of cerium atom, see Table S2 for details. The substitution of Pt also supports the argument that a single metal atom will always reside at the cation site of their host oxide.[27] The CeO2 has got this unique ability to trap the ionic Pt and goes through dehydrogenation, as it is considered a very efficient catalyst for the C—H bond activation.[25, 27] Due to a considerable ability of the CeO2 in propane conversion, the structural optimization is the foremost
step towards the investigation and DFT study of CeO2 catalyst surface. To properly explore the structural stability of single metal atom doped catalyst surface, the adsorption phenomena of different species was observed. This adsorption observation enabled us to calculate and perform a comparative study of binding energies over the pristine, oxygen-deficient, and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces.
Adsorption
During the PDH reaction, several species such as propane, propylene, H, 2-propyl, and 1-propenyl are involved from the 1st dehydrogenation step to deep dehydrogenation. A detailed examination of the kinetics and energy barriers for the PDH reaction is direly needed to investigate the adsorption phenomena of these species on the CeO2(111) surfaces, as the adsorption of propane and propylene on the catalyst surface has been previously found to play a vital role in determining the kinetics of the overall reaction.[25, 26] The 1st dehydrogenation step, that involves the dehydrogenation of propane, is generally considered to be the rate-limiting step which controls the overall rate of the reaction, while the desorption and dehydrogenation energy barriers of the propylene are associated with propylene selectivity.
The calculation of binding energy of species (ΔEbinding) on the pristine, oxygen-deficient, and Pt-doped surfaces was performed using following formula:
(1)
where Esurface+adsorbate, Esurface, and Eadsorbate are the respective energies of the surface including the adsorbed specie, clean surface, and solely gas-phase specie. Binding energies at the defined active sites on the respective CeO2(111) surfaces are shown in Table 1. As depicted in Table 1, negative binding energy values show the exothermic nature of adsorption. The adsorption between the adsorbate and surface is divided into chemisorption and physisorption.[28, 29] Similarly, on our CeO2(111) surface the dehydrogenation reaction species such as propane, propylene, H, and 2-propyl are either physisorbed or chemisorbed, depending on the strength of bonding interaction present between the adsorbate and respective surface.
Table 1. The binding energy calculations (in eV) at M = Ce and O sites
Surface Propane H2 Propylene 2-propyl H H&H 2-Propyl & H
M Site O Site M Site O Site M-O M-O
CeO2(111) –0.25 –0.07 –0.26 –0.44 –2.21 –0.08 –3.27 –3.89 –3.64
CeO2(111) _vac –0.30 –0.09 –0.52 –0.39 –1.99 –0.45 –3.06 –3.82 –3.40
Pt1-CeO2(111) –0.25 –0.06 –0.21 –0.10 –2.37 –1.60 –3.60 –4.20 –3.99
First step for the placement of adsorbates on a surface is the determination of suitable sites, which are metal (M = Ce) and oxygen (O) sites in our calculations. These sites can be employed for the deep investigation of the adsorption and co-adsorption with their respective binding energy calculations.
The significant results of the binding energies given in Table 1, such as –1.60 and –4.20 eV, are about the atomic H adsorption and co-adsorption of H and H over the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface. The atomic H is strongly adsorbed over the Pt-doped surface, with a binding energy value of –1.60 eV. Compared to the pristine and defective surfaces, the electronic charge distribution on the Pt-doped surface is changed throughout the surface. Similarly, the Lewis acid-base interaction plays its role during the co-adsorption of H and H, having binding energy value of –4.20 eV, which enhances the bonding ability of the surface Ce atom. The H—O bond, having larger adsorption strength, contributes more to the overall binding energy of the co-adsorbed H and H, making it more strongly chemisorbed than on the pristine and defective surfaces.
Co-adsorption of H and H
The adsorption of hydrogen (H) is very energetic over the pristine CeO2(111) surface when it is placed over the O site, as the H atom forms a very strong O—H bond with a binding energy of –3.27 eV, whereas the interaction of H atom with the surface cerium (Ce) atom is pretty weak. The bond length between the H and Ce atoms of the surface is 2.817 Å, having far less adsorption heat than that at the O site. However, this particular behavior changes dramatically when two H atoms are introduced over the surface and allowing them to co-adsorb at the Ce—O site. The atomic H on top of a Ce atom, usually not active in forming a chemical bond at the surface when adsorbed, tends to interact strongly with the surface in the presence of another H atom at the adjacent O site. As it has been demonstrated that the presence of a Lewis base on a surface increases the binding energy of a Lewis acid in the vicinity,[30] this co-adsorption behavior of H and H atoms illustrates the presence of the Lewis acid-base interaction on the CeO2(111) surface. It can be stated that with the introduction of second H atom at the adjacent Ce site, H atom at the O site will act as a base, while the other H atom at the M site would accept the electron to act as a Lewis acid.
The Bader charge analysis was performed over this co-adsorption as an evidential interpretation of the electron transfer. The calculated effective Bader charges are presented in Table 2. It is depicted from the values that the number of electrons transferred between H—O and H—Ce atoms are +0.449 and –0.138, when adsorbed. Similarly, the electrons transferred between the H—Ce atoms are –0.446, when both adsorbates are co-adsorbed. It can be seen that the number of electrons gained by the H atom at the metal site (Ce) are considerably increased, where the attraction between both H atoms indicates the presence of the Lewis acid-base interaction, as shown in Figure 2. The effective Bader charges listed in Table 2 indicate the transferring of electrons from the H at the O site to that at the Ce site. The H at the O site has almost the same number of positive charges (+0.449 |e|, +0.511 |e|), regardless of whether the adjacent Ce site is occupied. However, the H at the Ce site carries more negative charge (–0.446 |e|) when the other H is co-adsorbed at the O site. This presence of opposite charges produces the electrostatic attraction, which makes the interatomic distance between the adsorbates (H and H) to become short, as shown in Figure 2.
Table 2. Calculated effective Bader charge over CeO2(111) for the co- adsorption of H and H
Adsorbate Bonding interaction Effective bader charge Δq/|e| a
Adsorption H—O +0.449
H—Ce –0.138
Co-adsorption H—O +0.511
H—Ce –0.446
a The positive and negative values signify loss and gain of electron, respectively.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Top and side views of co-adsorbed H and H over (a) the pristine CeO2(111), (b) oxygen-deficient CeO2(111), and (c) Pt1-CeO2(111) surface.
The oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface does not show any considerable change in terms of binding energy of the co-adsorbed H and H atoms, which is as much negative (–3.82 eV) as it
was on the pristine surface (–3.89 eV). However, with the presence of a charge depletion zone, charge distribution as well as the stability over the defective surface is changed compared to the pristine surface. Therefore, the stability of the bonding between H and the atoms surrounding the charge depletion zone is expected to increase, but the bond formation is only stable at the O2 and Ce2 sites with a distance of 1.360 Å between H and H atoms, as shown in Figure 2.
Upon doping the CeO2(111) surface with single Pt atoms, the binding energy of the co-adsorbed H and H atoms comes out to be –4.20 eV, much more negative than those on the pristine and oxygen-deficient surfaces, with interatomic distance of 2.229 Å between the two adsorbed H atoms. As the interatomic distance increases, adsorption strength also shows a considerable rise, so the doped surface tends to enhance the interaction of H atom with the surface Ce atom. The binding energy of atomic H at the O site over the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface is –3.60 eV, which is more negative than those over the pristine (–3.27 eV) and defective surface (–3.06 eV). Therefore, the bonding between the H and O atoms is quite strong, which ultimately increases the binding energy of H and H atoms.
On the contrary, the H and H co-adsorption at the O—O site is more exothermic than that at the Ce—O site, but it does not affect the H2 energy barrier calculation over our CeO2(111) surfaces. This is because the interatomic distance between two surface O atoms is too large, i.e., 3.886 Å on pristine, 3.745 Å on defective and 3.524 Å on Pt-doped surface, to locate the transition state. Hence, the Ce—O site is more influential in affecting the CeO2 catalyst reactivity than the O—O site.
Co-adsorption of 2-propyl and H
The 2-propyl being an important species during the dehydrogenation reaction has to go through dehydrogenation to take part effectively in the overall reaction, so its adsorption is observed on our three CeO2(111) surfaces, i.e., pristine, defective, and Pt-doped. During the 2-propyl adsorption at the pristine, defective, and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces, the interaction between the carbon (C) atom of 2-propyl and Ce atom of the CeO2(111) surface is unstable and weak. This instability does not support the bond formation between the C and Ce atoms, whereas the O atom of the CeO2(111) surface shows an adequate stronger interaction with the C atom of 2-propyl. As discussed earlier during co-adsorption of the H and H atoms, there is no bond formation possible between the surface Ce atom and the adsorbate H atom, similarly the surface Ce atom does not form any bond with the C atom, either. This bond formation limitation no longer exists, when the 2-propyl and H are co-adsorbed at the two adjacent atoms, i.e., Ce and O, on the CeO2(111) surface, respectively. In comparison to the Ce—O site, the 2-propyl and H co-adsorption at the O—O site is stable, but it fails to demonstrate any presence of Lewis acid-base interaction, which is a critical factor in enhancing the reactivity of surface Ce atoms. Consequently, in the context of surface Ce atom reactivity and the revealed Lewis acid-base interaction, it is more rational to explore the co-adsorption at the Ce—O site.
On the pristine CeO2(111) surface, with the co-adsorption of 2-propyl and H, the bond formation between the atomic H and surface O is energetically favorable and forms a strong bond with a bond length of 0.980 Å, but there is no bond formation between the surface Ce atom and adsorbate C atom. On the other hand, if we switch the adsorbate positions, i.e., H—Ce and 2-propyl—O, the bond is successfully formed between the H—Ce and 2-propyl—O. So, the bond formation limitation of the atomic H with the surface Ce atom diminishes with the co-adsorption of 2-propyl and H. Consequently, the Lewis acid-base interaction assists the bond formation of both adsorbates with the CeO2(111) surface. Both the cases of co-adsorption (2-propyl and H) show an interesting variation in the binding energy comparison. The co- adsorption for the first case, i.e., H—O and 2-propyl—Ce, is more exothermic than the second case, i.e., H—Ce and 2-propyl—O, having the binding energy values of –3.64 and –2.58 eV, respectively. This demonstration implies that the presence of both the bonds during the co-adsorption is not the evidence of greater stability and more negative binding energy, therefore requiring the energy decomposition study for the further illustration of this aspect. Hence, the binding energy of the 2-propyl and H is split into three different terms by using the following equation:
(2)
where the bonding energy (ΔEbonding) explains the direct interaction of 2-propyl and H with the catalyst surface, ΔEdistortion, ads is the adsorbate (2-propyl and H) distortion energy, and ΔEdistortion, surf is the catalyst surface distortion energy upon adsorption.
As shown in Figure 3, the bonding energy is less negative at the Ce—O site, where there is no bond formation between the surface Ce atom and the C atom of 2-propyl, as compared to the O—Ce site, where both the bonds are present. However, the binding energy on the Ce—O site is more negative than that on the O—Ce site. It is evident from this observation that the bond present between the atomic H and surface O atom is very dominant and it contributes a lot to the overall co-adsorption binding energy. This is the reason that even though there is no bond present between the C atom of 2-propyl and Ce atom of the surface, the binding energy at the Ce—O site is more negative than the O—Ce site.
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
(a) Decomposition of the binding energies of 2-propyl and H on the CeO2(111) surface, (b) co-adsorbed 2-propyl and H structure at the Ce—O site and (c) co-adsorbed 2-propyl and H structure at the O—Ce site.
The oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface creates some sites, i.e., O1, Ce1, O2 and Ce2, for the adsorption of different dehydrogenation species, as shown in Figure 1. Performing the adsorption of 2-propyl at these above-mentioned sites enables us to observe the interaction of 2-propyl alone as well as its co-adsorption with the H atom. The C atom of 2-propyl shows no bonded interactions with the surface Ce atoms, while it forms a bond with the surface O atom, having almost identical binding energy value at both the O and Ce sites in comparison to the pristine CeO2(111) surface. However, when the co-adsorption of the 2-propyl and H is performed, same as the pristine surface observation, both adsorbates (2-propyl and H) form bonds with the catalyst surface. Performing co-adsorption at the different sites on the defective surface revealed that the O2 and Ce2 are the most favorable sites, on which both the bonds of H and 2-propyl are stable with the binding energy value of –2.44 eV. But if the adsorbate positions are reversed, i.e., H—O and 2-propyl—Ce, no bond is formed between the C atom of 2-propyl and the surface Ce atom, as shown in Figure S3. However, the binding energy value is more negative (–3.40 eV) and is quite close to the pristine surface value of –3.64 eV. In other words, the atoms close to the oxygen vacancy are not stable enough to support the Lewis acid-base interaction, as their electronic charge distribution is disturbed because of the oxygen vacancy. The surface distortion near the oxygen vacancy also plays a critical role in preventing a stable co-adsorption of the 2-propyl and H at the nearest neighbor atoms of the vacancy. Whereas, the atomic sites such as O2 and Ce2 (shown in Figure 1), residing far from the oxygen vacancy, show a stable bond formation of the 2-propyl and H.
The Bader charge analysis is performed to investigate the surface changes due to the oxygen vacancy and to examine the effect of electron transfer on the H—Ce and 2-propyl—O interaction.
As shown in Table 3, the electron transfer provides information about the tendency of an adsorbate to gain or lose electron within the presence of another adsorbate. During co-adsorption, the H atom gains more electrons from the surface Ce atom compared to the adsorption, which results in the formation of a chemical bond between the H and Ce atom. Similarly, more electrons are donated by the 2-propyl to the surface O atom, that enhances the overall stability of both the bonds of adsorbates, indicating the Lewis acid-base interaction.
Table 3. Calculated effective Bader charges over the CeO2(111) for the co-adsorption of 2-propyl and H
Adsorbate Bonding interaction Effective bader charge Δq/|e| a
Adsorption H—Ce –0.171
2-propyl—O +0.464
Co-adsorption H—Ce –0.388
2-propyl—O +0.488
a The positive and negative values signify loss and gain of electron, respectively.
On the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, as the platinum has more valence electrons than cerium, the electronic distribution over the surface changes, so it is rational to expect that the adsorption phenomena will be more exothermic than the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surfaces. Performing the co-adsorption of 2-propyl and H over the Pt-doped surface, having the H—O and 2-propyl—Ce or vice versa, there is a considerable increase in the exothermicity. This increase illustrates that when an atomic H is placed over the Ce atom and 2-propyl over the O atom of the surface, the overall binding energy becomes more negative on the Pt-doped surface than on the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surfaces. As one can see in Table S3, the co-adsorption over the Pt-doped surface is more exothermic, with binding energy value of –3.05 eV, than that over the pristine and defective surfaces. While, the pristine and oxygen-deficient surfaces have almost the same binding energy, having values of –2.58 and –2.44 eV, respectively.
In light of these calculations, we can deduce that the single Pt atom doping has enhanced the adsorption ability of the CeO2(111) surface. Moreover, in comparison to the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surfaces, the bond formation between the C atom of 2-propyl and the surface Ce atom is still not possible, even if an atomic H is bonded to an adjacent O atom of the surface. On the other hand, if the adsorption is done directly over the Pt atom of the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, the binding energy is much more negative than any adsorption involving the 2-propyl and H, as shown in Table S4. The charge transfer changes are discussed in the later section, which will help in deeper understanding of these energy changes on the pristine, defective, and Pt-doped surfaces.
Adsorption of propylene
The adsorption of propylene is quite significant and crucial in the PDH reaction, as it helps in understanding the relationship between the deep dehydrogenation and selectivity of catalyst. A highly stable adsorption of propylene results in the lowering of the catalyst selectivity towards propylene, with increased coke and methane formation.[25, 31]
The adsorption of propylene over the pristine CeO2(111) surface has shown some unexpected results. Unlike on the transition metals, the binding energy value of propylene is positive when chemisorbed over the pristine CeO2(111) surface, while upon physisorption, the binding energy value of propylene becomes negative.[31, 32] The physisorbed and chemisorbed propylene binding energies are shown in Tables 1 and S5, respectively. Normally, except for some cases and species, the adsorption is exothermic and its enthalpy is much more negative than the physisorption. Hence, this abnormal behavior of propylene needs some physical interpretation to understand. The binding energy of the propylene is decomposed, same as 2-propyl and H, according to equation (2), where, ΔEdistortion, surf and ΔEdistortion, ads represent the energy difference between the catalyst surface and adsorbate before and after adsorption, while the ΔEbonding is the energy released by the interaction of distorted adsorbate, i.e., propylene, and the catalyst surface.
As shown in Figure 4, the surface distortion energy (ΔEdistortion, surf) and the adsorbate distortion energy (ΔEdistortion,ads) are very much positive upon adsorption, implying that both the surface and adsorbate are very much distorted, which imparts a negative effect on the overall binding energy of propylene. The bond length of the C=C double bond in the gaseous phase is calculated to be 1.335 Å, but the bond lengths during this adsorption of propylene are elongated to 1.497 Å at the O—Ce site and 1.496 Å at the Ce—O site. The adsorption is performed at two sites (O—Ce, Ce—O) in order to examine whether the changes in adsorbate (propylene) geometry influence adsorption or help in bonding. The surface Ce atom does not form any bond with the C atom of propylene, but the active surface O atom makes a bond with adsorbate C atom with bond lengths of 1.471 and 1.453 Å, as shown in Figure 4. Only the O atom of the CeO2(111) surface will form a bond with the C atom of propylene because, as discussed in co-adsorption, the bond formation between the C atom and the surface Ce atom is not possible.
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Decomposition of binding energies of propylene on (a) CeO2(111), (b) propylene chemisorption over the O—Ce site, (c) propylene chemisorption over the Ce—O site, and (d) propylene physisorption.
On the oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface, the surface distortion is much more significant than that on the pristine CeO2(111) surface because of the oxygen vacancy, which results in the surface instability and charge depletion region. Despite of this surface instability, there is one site on the oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface that enables both the Ce and O atoms of the surface to form a bond with the C atoms of propylene, concurrently. The
oxygen vacancy increases the reactivity of the surface Ce atom to facilitate the bond formation with the adsorbate C atom, which was not possible on the pristine surface, as shown in Figure S6. However, same binding energy trend is followed here, as it was observed on the pristine CeO2(111) surface. The binding energy of the chemisorbed propylene is positive, unlike usual behavior, with a value of 0.37 eV, but its physisorption shows a negative binding energy value of –0.52 eV, shown in Table S6. Moreover, the bond length of C=C bond of propylene is elongated in the defective surface too, same as the pristine surface.
The Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, similar to the pristine surface, also shows negative binding energy value upon physisorption and positive binding energy value upon the chemisorption of propylene. The doped surface also qualifies the bond formation between the surface atoms (Ce, O and Pt) and the C atoms of propylene, similar to the defective surface. Hence, the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface shows both behaviors simultaneously, which were demonstrated separately over the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surfaces. On the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, due to the availability of more possible sites for the propylene adsorption as compared to the pristine and defective surfaces, the binding energy value depends on the position of propylene over the surface. When propylene is positioned over the Ce and O atoms of the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, it shows a positive binding energy value, whereas when it is placed over a site which involves the Pt atom, the chemisorption of propylene shows a much negative binding energy value, as shown in Figure S7. In addition, latter positioning also facilitates the bond formation between the C—Ce and C—O atoms. However, the physisorption of propylene shows a negative binding energy value of –0.21, similar to the pristine and defective CeO2(111) surfaces, as shown in Table 1. The adsorption of propylene is very crucial in determining the activation energy of the deep dehydrogenation reaction as well as the selectivity of propylene. Considering propylene as the desired product, its selectivity is very critical for the dehydrogenation reaction over our pristine, oxygen- deficient and single-Pt-atom-doped CeO2(111) surfaces. However, the Pt-based catalysts, as depicted in some experimental work over the CeO2 catalyst,[25] are subjected to lower selectivity towards propylene because of having good C—C bond cleavage ability. This decrease of the selectivity is improved by weakening the bonding interaction of propylene with the Pt-Sn/CeO2 catalyst surface.[25]
Furthermore, the Pt atom is adsorbed over the Pt-Sn/CeO2[25] catalyst surface, whereas on our Pt1-CeO2(111) surface the single Pt atom is doped in the surface layer with the removal of one Ce atom. Consequently, the adsorption results, activation energies and the selectivity of propylene over our Pt1-CeO2(111) catalyst surface can be compared to the Pt-Sn/CeO2[25] catalyst, to have a better apprehension on the effects of single metal atom catalyst over the surface reactivity and selectivity. On the Pt-Sn/CeO2[25] catalyst surface, the propane conversion is fairly high as compared to the selectivity of propylene. The reason pointed out for this lower selectivity is the adsorption and activation energy of the propylene.[31, 33] Highly exothermic adsorption of propylene over the Pt-Sn/CeO2 surface, facilitates a more stable bond formation between the surface and adsorbate. Therefore, the strongly adsorbed propylene is amenable to further dehydrogenation and will not desorb from the surface, as a result the selectivity is decreased. Whereas, the selectivity is improved when the adsorption of propylene becomes weak and the desorption energy barrier is lowered.
The unusual positive binding energy values of the chemisorbed propylene over our three CeO2(111) surfaces, i.e., pristine, oxygen deficient, and Pt-doped, will now be discussed in the light of activation energy calculations. Furthermore, a comparative analysis of the adsorption strength, activation energy and selectivity between our Pt1-CeO2(111) catalyst surface and the above-mentioned Pt-Sn/CeO2[25] catalyst surface is also performed.
PDH on pristine surface
Discussing the mechanism for the PDH reaction over metal- oxide catalyst surface, a simplified reaction network is considered involving two dehydrogenation steps, propane to 2-propyl and 2-propyl to propylene with H2 formation and deep dehydrogenation. Deep dehydrogenation is also taken into account for the selectivity considerations of propylene. Methyl group happens to be the one that initiates the activation of propane to produce 1-propyl, as it is known that the methylene group is more readily activated than the methyl group.[34] Thus, in this work breaking of the C—H bond from methylene group is focused.
The 1st dehydrogenation step
The activation of propane can take place by either heterolytic or homolytic mechanism, involving the metal (M) and O site of the surface.[35] Considering the inactivity of the M (Ce) atom towards bond formation, the M-O site is taken for the cleavage of the C—H bond in propane to get 2-propyl, having one Ce atom surrounded by three O atoms.
The physisorbed propane approaches the surface and adequately attaches its methylene group, the C—H bond, to the surface in such a manner that the O atom of surface will attack the H atom of propane. The atoms are positioned in a fashion that there is an appropriate distance between the O—H and C—H atoms, as our prime objective is to cleave the C—H bond and to prevail O—H bond stronger. In doing so, the transition state is achieved at a C—H bond length of 1.408 Å. There is no bond present between the C—H atoms, but between the H and surface O atom a bond is formed with a bond length of 1.206 Å. The Gibbs free energy barrier obtained for the 1st dehydrogenation step over the pristine CeO2(111) surface comes out to be 2.28 eV. In addition, the employed C3H8(g) in Figure 5, during Gibbs free energy barrier calculations, is well supported by numerous previously reported DFT works, as propane is weakly physisorbed over our CeO2(111) surfaces.[34, 36, 37]
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Gibbs free energy profiles for PDH on the pristine, oxygen- deficient, and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces at 850 K and 0.35 bar of C3H8. All the Gibbs free energies are calculated relative to the sum of the Gibbs free energies of the gas-phase propane and bare surface.
On the oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface, the 1st dehydrogenation step takes place at the O site. Knowing the fact that the Ce atom is unable to form any bonding with the C and H atoms, the O ion is more likely to break the C—H bond than the M-O pair. The physiosorbed propane is taken as the initial state with a distance of 1.370 Å between the C and H atoms, while the transition state is located at a distance of 1.443 Å between the C and H atoms. The Gibbs free energy barrier for the 1st dehydrogenation over defective surface is 2.49 eV, which is higher than that over the pristine surface, as shown in Figure 5.
Propane converts into 2-propyl during the 1st dehydrogenation step at the O site over the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface. The O atom of the surface, surrounded by one Pt and two Ce atoms, will attack the C—H bond of the propane. The transition state is achieved with a bond length 1.324 Å. The Gibbs free energy barrier over the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface for the 1st dehydrogenation step is lower (1.97 eV) than those on the pristine and oxygen- deficient CeO2(111) surfaces because of the more stable 2-propyl and H co-adsorption.
The 2nd dehydrogenation step
As discussed earlier, during the 1st dehydrogenation step, the C—H bond can be activated by either M-O pair or O atom. Similarly, during the 2nd dehydrogenation, as the 2-propyl goes through the dehydrogenation to give propylene, the C—H bond will be activated by the O atom of the surface. The 2-propyl is more stably adsorbed at the O atom than at Ce atom over the pristine CeO2(111) surface, as there is no bond formation between the 2-propyl and surface Ce atom. This adsorbed 2-propyl at the O site will be attacked by the neighboring O atom, which is attached to the three Ce atoms. This attack on the C—H bond will move the H atom closer to the O atom of the surface and ultimately breaks the C—H bond of 2-propyl. As a result, the transition state is achieved with the C—H bond length of 1.577 Å and the O—H bond length of 1.110 Å, shown in Figure 5. The Gibbs free energy barrier is calculated to be 1.68 eV, considering the adsorbed 2-propyl over the Ce atom as the initial state. The using of 0.5H2 (g), half energy of the gas phase H2, in Figure 5 to balance the initial state of 2nd dehydrogenation step is exactly in accordance with the recent PDH works.[10, 15, 16, 36]
On the oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface, the transition state for the 2nd dehydrogenation step was located over the O atom, having the adsorbed 2-propyl over the Ce atom as the initial state. The Gibbs free energy barrier calculation gives a value of 0.72 eV, which is quite lower than that on the pristine surface. Therefore, the energy barrier for the 2nd dehydrogenation reaction step is lower on the oxygen-deficient surface than on the pristine surface.
Doping the CeO2(111) surface with single Pt atoms will surely affect the activation energy barrier for the dehydrogenation reaction, as it has affected adsorption phenomena too. The adsorption of 2-propyl over the Ce atom is considered as the initial state because of its more negative binding energy on the Ce atom than on the O atom. The calculated Gibbs free energy barrier over Pt1- CeO2(111) surface is 1.64 eV, which is lower than that over the pristine CeO2(111) surfaces.
H2 formation
The dissociation of H2, quite similar to the dehydrogenation of propane, can happen by the homolytic or heterolytic mechanisms.[38] As the M—O site can activate the C—H bond and has stable co-adsorption for H and H atoms, so for the H–H bond cleavage, the M—O site can be considered. During the co-adsorption of H and H at the M—O site, it is observed that the binding energy is quite negative, not only on the pristine surface but also on the oxygen-deficient surface, showing the values of –3.89 and –3.82 eV, respectively. Because of the Lewis acid-base interaction, it is rational to expect that the energy barrier for H2 formation will not be large and there will not be much difference in the energy barriers of the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surfaces. Due to the Lewis acid-base interaction, it is not much difficult for the surface O atom to pull the H atom, adsorbed at the adjacent Ce atom site, close enough to achieve the transition state. The transition state was achieved at a bond length of 1.167 Å, considering the co-adsorbed H and H at the M—O site as the initial state, as shown in Figure S8. The energy barrier for the H2 formation was calculated to be 0.01 eV, indicating that there is not much energy barrier for the H2 formation on the CeO2(111) surface, as depicted in Figure 6.
Figure 6
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Energy profiles for H2 formation on the pristine, oxygen deficient and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces. All the potential energies are referenced to gas-phase H2.
The surface changes because of the single Pt atom doping will affect the energy barrier for H2 formation by increasing the activation energy barrier. Considering the co-adsorbed H and H at the M—O site over the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface as the initial state, the energy barrier for the H2 formation is calculated to be 0.09 eV. The binding energy of the H and H co-adsorption is much negative on the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface compared to the pristine and oxygen- deficient CeO2(111) surfaces, as shown in Table 1. Due to very small energy barrier, the H2 formation reaction dominates the H2O formation reaction on our CeO2(111) surfaces. Therefore, we confined our calculations to H2 formation energy barriers.[8, 25]
Deep dehydrogenation of propylene
The propylene, obtained during the 2nd dehydrogenation step, should reduce its tendency to get further dehydrogenation, i.e., deep dehydrogenation. As our desired product is propylene, the deep dehydrogenation will further dehydrogenate propylene to 2-propenyl and can also result in coke formation.[39] As shown in Figure 7, the energy difference between the deep dehydrogenation activation energy (Eact,deh) and desorption activation energy (Eact,des) is calculated as a measure of selectivity. The dehydrogenation activation energy provides information about the energy barrier between propylene and 2-propenyl, while the desorption energy barrier illustrates about the energy required by propylene to desorb from the catalyst surface instead of carrying on dehydrogenation. Hence, the energy difference between the dehydrogenation energy barrier and desorption energy barrier determines the route for propylene, which can be either dehydrogenation or desorption. The dehydrogenation and desorption energy barriers over the pristine, defective, and Pt-doped surfaces are calculated with respect to the stable adsorption of propylene. Moreover, it was observed that the selectivity descriptor (Eact,dehy–Eact,des) for Pt1-CeO2(111) surface remains same upon calculating Eact, dehy and Eact, des at different propylene adsorption sites, see Figure S9 for details.
Figure 7
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Calculated energy barriers for the deep dehydrogenation of propylene to 2-propenyl, the desorption energy of propylene, and the energy difference between them.
Considering the pristine CeO2(111) surface, the dehydrogenation energy barrier is 1.17 eV higher than the desorption energy barrier, which means that less amount of energy is required by the propylene to desorb than to dehydrogenate. On the oxygen- deficient CeO2(111) surface, the dehydrogenation energy barrier is more than the desorption energy barrier by a value of 0.90 eV. Similarly, the difference between the dehydrogenation and desorption barrier becomes 0.46 eV on the Pt-doped CeO2(111) surface. If the dehydrogenation energy barrier is higher than the desorption energy barrier, the propylene will acquire desorption instead of dehydrogenation, because the desorption requires less energy, which as a result improves the selectivity towards propylene.
On the pristine, oxygen-deficient and single-Pt-atom-doped CeO2(111) surface, the difference between the dehydrogenation and desorption energy barrier is reducing, i.e., 1.17 eV on pristine, 0.90 eV on oxygen-deficient, and 0.46 eV on the single-Pt-atom- doped CeO2 (111) surface. This indicates that the desorption and dehydrogenation energy barriers are approaching closer to each other on the Pt-doped CeO2(111) surface and, consequently, the selectivity of propylene on Pt1-CeO2(111) surface will decrease. The difference in the dehydrogenation and desorption energy barrier decreases due to the adsorption stability of propylene over the catalyst surfaces.[25, 31] With a strong adsorption of propylene over a particular catalyst surface, having a highly negative binding energy value, the selectivity of that surface towards propylene will decrease. The activation energy for the deep dehydrogenation reaction and its transition state structures are shown in Table S8 and Figure S10, respectively.
During the adsorption discussion, we have discussed that if an adsorbate has a highly negative binding energy value, its interaction with the surface is stable because of its exothermic adsorption. With a negative binding energy value, the adsorbent surface will hold the adsorbate species tightly and the bond formed between them will be stable. In contrast, if it is positive, the interaction between the adsorbate and adsorbent catalyst surface is weak. Hence, this weaker interaction between the propylene and catalyst surface increases the chances of propylene desorption, which in return reduces the deep dehydrogenation and increases the selectivity. This argument is also supported by some work done on alkane dehydrogenation over Pt-Sn ceria catalyst,[25] in which it is shown that the selectivity of Pt-Sn/CeO2[25] catalyst surface is low because of the stable adsorption of propylene over its surface. But in order to improve the selectivity, the propylene was weakly adsorbed over the surface with less negative binding energy. Furthermore, the adsorption of propylene also affects the activation energy of the dehydrogenation reaction, as the adsorption of propylene is more exothermic and stable over our Pt1-CeO2(111) surface than the Pt-Sn/CeO2,[25] the dehydrogenation reaction step has lower activation energy on the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface than on the Pt-Sn/CeO2 surface, which is according to the experimental observations.[25]
A comparative study of our Pt1-CeO2(111) catalyst and Pt-Sn/CeO2[25] catalyst work shows that the adsorption phenomena of propylene, activation energy, and their effect on selectivity are followed in our work too. As discussed earlier, the difference in the dehydrogenation and desorption energy barrier reduces from the pristine to Pt-doped CeO2(111) surface. This is because of the strong propylene adsorption, reported in the Pt-Sn/CeO2 work too. Moreover, the 2nd dehydrogenation and deep dehydrogenation activation energy barrier also follows the same trend as Pt-Sn/CeO2[25] experimental work. On the pristine and oxygen- deficient CeO2(111) surface, the activation energy for the 2nd dehydrogenation step is less than that on the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, but still the product propylene is more stably adsorbed at the latter site. Therefore, after the 2nd dehydrogenation, the propylene on the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface, as they have weak interaction with surface, will desorb and will not be available for the deep dehydrogenation. On the other hand, Pt1-CeO2(111) has much stable propylene adsorption and will allow the propylene to further dehydrogenate, which results in lower selectivity. The selectivity towards propylene and the activation energies of the deep dehydrogenation are shown in Figure 7 and Table S8, respectively.
In summary, the oxygen vacancy creation and Pt-doping reduce the surface Ce atom valence from +4 to +3, which resultantly induce some geometry changes with the creation of new sites (shown in Figure 1). These sites increase the probability of stable adsorption of dehydrogenated species with enhanced Lewis acid-base interaction over the oxygen deficient and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces. Resultantly, the propylene is more stably adsorbed over oxygen-deficient and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces than over the pristine surface. As the propylene is most stably adsorbed over the Pt-doped surface and the surface distortion is most dominant over the oxygen deficient surface because of charge deficient area, the Eact,dehy and Eact,des over the oxygen vacant and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces are very much different from each other, as shown in Figure 7. Hence, due to most stable propylene adsorption, the deep dehydrogenation energy barrier is very small over the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, which consequently lowers the selectivity.
Effect of oxygen vacancy
The oxygen vacancy plays a crucial role in the redox catalysis, surface property modifications, and surface reaction, which are depicted in numerous works.[40-42] As ceria tends to lose the oxygen and reduces easily, it is categorized as reducible oxide, i.e., CeO2, TiO2, in contrast to less reducible oxides such as Al2O3, MgO.[40] Generally, in metal-oxides, the oxygen vacancy formation can be done at different sites over the catalyst such as surface oxygen vacancy and subsurface oxygen vacancy.[43, 44] In most cases, because of the higher stability, the oxygen vacancies usually prefer to be present at the surface.[43] In addition, this oxygen vacancy creation results in the extensive surface modifications.
With the removal of one O atom from the surface, bonded with two neighbor Ce atoms, it localizes two electrons left behind in the Ce 4f state, which leads to the valence change, i.e., Ce3+, in two Ce ions per vacancy. The location of these f electrons and the Ce3+ ions has been a point of discussion over the years, as it was considered that the Ce3+ ions are located in the nearest neighbor atoms (NN), surrounding the oxygen vacancy over the surface.[45] As this charge changes and reduction increases drastically, the reactivity of ceria surface and transfer of excess f electrons is very essential.[46]
As shown in Figure 8, by removing one surface O atom we obtained the oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface and the charge is accumulated over three Ce atoms surrounding the vacancy. Meanwhile, there is a charge deficient area in the center over the surface. As one surface O atom was removed, there are three Ce atoms located outwards, which are NN atoms, while one Ce atom located away from the vacancy area is attributed as the next nearest neighbor atom (NNN). The two excess f electrons can locate themselves at the NN or NNN sites, depending upon the type of vacancy.[47] According to the experimental calculations, location of the two excess f electrons can be at the NN and NNN sites on the oxygen defective surface.[47] On our oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface, the Ce1 and Ce2 atoms (shown in Figure 1) are the NN and NNN atoms, so the reactivity of these two Ce atoms should increase.
Figure 8
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Top and side views of the calculated charge density difference over (a, b) oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface and (c, d) Pt1-CeO2(111) surface. Charge accumulation and depletion are colored yellow and cyan, respectively, with the iso-surface value 0.05 e/Å3.
Change in the reactivity of the oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface can be evidently observed through propylene adsorption. As propylene does not form a bond with the Ce atom of the pristine surface, but on the defective CeO2(111) surface propylenes form bonds with the surface, with a more negative binding energy than on the pristine surface. Similarly, the same behavior was observed during the co-adsorption of 2-propyl and H. Because of the Ce3+ ions, the electronic size of these two cations will increase, which will induce some geometry changes to the surface. Consequently, the atomic distances between the surface atoms, i.e., Ce and O atoms, will change compared to the pristine CeO2(111) surface. Six O atoms on the outer side of the vacancy move outwards and their distance with the Ce atom is shortened by 0.10 Å, which is close to the reference value 0.12 Å.[48] Moreover, comparing our oxygen vacant CeO2(111) surface with the ZnO [8] surface, the Lewis acid-base interaction on the ZnO[8] surface is weakened with a negative effect on the reactivity. However, on our defective CeO2(111) surface, the lewis acid-base interaction is quite strong with a positive effect on the reactivity of the surface.
The oxygen vacancy diffuses and migrates with the adsorption of species like O2 and H. The atoms surrounding the vacancy, i.e.,
O and Ce, are present lower than the surface and they are pulled upwards, upon adsorption, in plane with the surface.[47] This surface change is observed on the oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface. With the adsorption of atomic H, the surface diffuses adsorbed H atom and the vacancy migrates itself, as shown in Figure S11. This surface relaxation can also be explained due to the positive electrostatic field surrounded by the oxygen vacancy, which attracts the nearest O anions, while repels the Ce cations.[48] Consequently, some of the sub-surface O atoms move upwards and come in a plane to the surface O atoms.
Effect of single Pt atom
The CeO2(111) surface goes through many surface changes when a single Pt atom is doped over the surface. The doping is done according to the exothermic nature and the stability of Pt2+ over the CeO2 surface.[27] Platinum upon its adsorption over the pristine surface reduces the surrounding Ce atoms from the +4 state to +3 state and the Pt itself reduces to +2 by donating its electrons to the neighboring O atoms.[27] On the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface, as shown in Figure 8, one Pt atom is surrounded by the three O atoms, similar to the Ce atom but the difference lies in the atomic distance of these metals with their surrounding O atoms. The Pt—O bond has a distance of 2.175 Å, whereas the bond length of the M—O bond on the pristine CeO2(111) surface is 2.371 Å, so there is a difference of 0.2 Å. Because of the charge transfer to the surrounding O atoms and the Pt atom reduction to Pt2+, the atomic distances are shortened. The charge deficient region is reduced while the charge accumulated area is been shared mainly between the single Pt atom doped and the surface O atoms, which as a result increases the surface reactivity for adsorption, as shown in Figure 8.
During the co-adsorption of the species such as H and H, 2-propyl and H, it can be seen from Table 1, the binding energies of these species are relatively increased, as compared to the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface. Similarly, the adsorption of propylene, which is a critical factor in the determination of selectivity, is also much more stable on the Pt-doped surface (–2.01 eV, Table S7), whereas on the pristine and oxygen- deficient CeO2(111) surfaces, the propylene is weakly adsorbed, having binding energy values of –0.26 and –0.52 eV, respectively. This indicates that the surface reactivity is increased and the Pt1-CeO2(111) surface is more likely to form much energetically stronger interactions with its adsorbate. With the adsorption changes, the single Pt atom doping will definitely affect the dehydrogenation reaction steps as well. The Gibbs free energy barrier for the 1st dehydrogenation step is lower than the pristine and oxygen-deficient CeO2(111) surface. Presence of the single Pt atom in the CeO2(111) surface induces strong interactions between catalyst surface and the adsorbate, which results in the more negative binding energy values but also has an adverse effect on the selectivity.
Conclusions
By conducting a comparative study of the various dehydrogenation species over the pristine, oxygen-deficient, and Pt-doped CeO2(111) surfaces, we have studied their stability, adsorption properties, and effects of their adsorption heat on the dehydrogenation reaction steps using DFT calculations. Our calculations show that the Ce atom of the catalyst is not active for the adsorption of H and C atoms because no bonding is found between the Ce atom and adsorbates like H, 2-propyl, and propylene. However, the O atom is much active and can from bonds with the adsorbates. The reactivity and bond formation ability of the surface Ce atom can be enhanced by the adsorption of Lewis base at the adjacent O site. On the oxygen-deficient surface, with the removal of an O atom, two excess f electrons are left behind, which locate themselves at the NN and NNN sites near the oxygen vacancy. Due to the presence of charge depletion area, the oxygen vacancy migrates itself pulling the surface O atoms outwards upon atomic H adsorption. In addition, the oxygen vacancy promotes the Lewis acid-base interaction and decreases the dehydrogenation energy barriers. Hence, the deep dehydrogenation and desorption energy barrier difference is higher on defective surface than on the Pt-doped surface.
Comparing our calculations with the Pt-Sn/CeO2 catalyst,[25] it is evidently found that the propylene adsorption governs the deep dehydrogenation and desorption energy barriers. Moreover, the argument that a weaker propylene adsorption leads to higher selectivity held true in our calculations. Analyzing our three CeO2(111) surfaces revealed that the surface reactivity of the CeO2 catalyst surface depends strongly upon the adsorption phenomena of the dehydrogenation species, assisted by the Lewis acid-base interactions. Hence, the inactive Ce atom of the surface can enhance its bond formation ability with propylene upon surface modification like vacancy creation and doping, which ultimately affects the dehydrogenation energy barrier and catalytic performance of the CeO2 catalysts.
Computational Details
All the DFT calculations were performed by using the Vienna Ab Initial Simulation Package (VASP).[49-51] In order to have a reasonably accurate description of the long-range van der Waals interaction and short-range covalent bonding between adsorbate and surface, the BEEF-vdW functional was employed.[52, 53] The BEEF-vdW functional deals well with the exchange and correlation in Kohn-Sham theory.[53] The projector-augmented (PAW) method was used for the description of interactions between the ion cores and valence electrons.[54] Having the valence electronic configurations of H (1s1), C (2s22p2), Os (2s22p4), Ce (4f15d16s2), and Pt (5d96s1), the energy cut off was set to 600 eV, which was crucial to get the convergence of total energy per atom within the limit of 1 meV. Due to the specious interaction of electrons with itself, the standard correlation functional can go through some errors known as self-interaction error (SIE).[55, 56] The SIE becomes large by all local exchange-correlation functional, so a Hubbard-type term was employed in the simplified DFT+U method to treat the on-site electron's strong coulomb interaction.[57-60] The effective U (Ueff) value of 1 eV for the Ce was used and it was obtained by fitting the formation energies of transition metal oxides to the available experimental data, shown in Figure S1. Gaussian smearing method with an energy smearing of 0.1 eV was used to determine the electronic occupancy. Geometry optimization was considered to be converged when forces on each atom were considered to be less than 0.05 eV/Å. The transition states were located by the dimer method with spin polarized calculations for the accurate structures and energies.[61] The calculated transition states were verified to have only one imaginary frequency through the vibrational frequency analysis.
Acknowledgements
This work is supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 91645122 and 22073027), the Natural Science Foundation of Shanghai (No. 20ZR1415800), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2018YFB0604700), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. 222201718003). The computational time provided by the Notur project is highly acknowledged.
Supporting Information
References
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
