I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Tandem propane dehydrogenation and surface oxidation catalysts for selective propylene synthesis
Editors summary
The conversion of propane to propylene by oxidation is less energy intensive than direct dehydrogenation but must be controlled to avoid overoxidation, which limits selectivity and conversion. Wang et al. show that a chemical looping process in which the feed gas switched between propane and oxygen achieved 81.3% propylene selectivity at 42.7% propane conversion at 550C. Well-dispersed vanadium dioxide on alumina performed the dehydrogenation reaction, and adjacent iron vanadate particles acted as the oxygen carrier. Propylene selectivity increased with nanoscale proximity of the catalyst sites so that the hydrogen generated at the vanadium dioxide could migrate readily to the adjacent iron vanadate side for combustion. Phil Szuromi
Abstract
Direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to propylene is a desirable commercial reaction but is highly endothermic and severely limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Routes that oxidatively remove hydrogen as water have safety and cost challenges. We coupled chemical loopingselective hydrogen (H2) combustion and PDH with multifunctional ferric vanadatevanadium oxide (FeVO4-VOx) redox catalysts. Well-dispersed VOx supported on aluminum oxide (Al2O3) provides dehydrogenation sites, and adjacent nanoscale FeVO4 acts as an oxygen carrier for subsequent H2 combustion. We achieved an integral performance of 81.3% propylene selectivity at 42.7% propane conversion at 550C for 200 chemical looping cycles for the reoxidization of FeVO4. Based on catalytic experiments, spectroscopic characterization, and theory calculations, we propose a hydrogen spillovermediated coupling mechanism. The hydrogen species generated at the VOx sites migrated to adjacent FeVO4 for combustion, which shifted PDH toward propylene. This mechanism is favored by the proximity between the dehydrogenation and combustion sites.
SIGN UP FOR THE SCIENCEADVISER NEWSLETTER
The latest news, commentary, and research, free to your inbox daily
SIGN UP
Propylene, a primary building block in the chemical industry, is mostly produced through the stream cracking of naphtha (1), an energy-intensive process that relies on petroleum feedstocks. Propane from shale gas is converted commercially to propylene through propane dehydrogenation (PDH) (24), but the reaction is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited and requires frequent catalyst regeneration after coke deposition. An alternative, thermocatalytic oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane (58) must overcome the overoxidation of propylene to CO2 in order to become a viable commercial process. Based on Le Chateliers principle, selective removal of H2 from products would shift the equilibrium toward propylene. Compared with hydrogen permselective membrane reactors and metal hydrides (9, 10), selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) has the additional advantage of simultaneous thermal release and can be seamlessly integrated with existing industrial PDH processes (11, 12). However, the O2-cofeed catalytic systems suffer from inherent safety hazards and require energy-intensive air separation (fig. S1).
The lattice oxygen of reducible metal oxides can act as solid oxygen carriers to achieve SHC under anaerobic conditions (1315). The feasibility of using oxygen carriers, such as Bi2O3 (16), In2O3 (17), V2O5 (18), Fe2O3 (19), MoO3 (20), and doped CeO2 (21), has been extensively validated. However, several limitations, including poor redox stability, low oxygen storage capacity (OSC), and limited hydrogen combustion selectivity, have precluded potential commercial use. Additionally, achieving precise control of communication behavior between dehydrogenation sites and hydrogen combustion sites at the molecular level to mediate tandem PDH-SHC reactions remains a challenge (1, 12).
We propose an intensified process for coupling PDH and chemical loopingselective hydrogen combustion (CL-SHC) under anaerobic conditions in a tandem fashion with the multifunctional FeVO4-VOx redox catalysts (Fig. 1A). We used a known PDH catalyst, VOx with 3 wt % metal loading on a γ-Al2O3 support (denoted 3V/Al), with a synthesized FeVO4 oxygen carrier that has a high OSC and high stability for SHC loaded in one reactor (figs. S2 and S3). The FeVO4 oxygen carriers donated lattice oxygen to convert hydrogen into water. The reduced oxygen carriers were then exposed to air in a separate step to replenish the lattice oxygen, which is known as the chemical-looping (or redox) process. In this way, we avoided the direct contact of gaseous O2 with the flammable mixture and the need for cryogenic air separation.
Fig. 1. Characterizations of 30FeV-3V/Al tandem catalysts.
(A) Schematic representation of the PDH+CL-SHC scheme under anaerobic conditions. lat, lattice; vac, vacancy. (B) Schematic of the tandem catalysts in different modes: M1, dual-bed configuration with FeVO4 packed below 3V/Al; M2, stacking of granules with FeVO4 and 3V/Al; M3, powder mixtures of FeVO4 and 3V/Al; and M4, mortar mixtures of 3V/Al and FeVO4. (C and D) XRD patterns (C) and in situ Raman spectra (D) of FeVO4 and 30FeV-3V/Al. a.u., arbitrary units. (E and F) HAADF-STEM image (E) and EELS-mapping (F) of 30FeV-3V/Al, which comes from the selected square area in (E). (G and H) EELS line-scanning of the V L2,3 and Fe L2,3 edges.
Tandem catalyst systems
We investigated four different tandem modes with site proximities ranging from the millimeter scale to the nanoscale (denoted as M1 to M4) by controlling the spatial distribution of FeVO4 oxygen carriers and 3V/Al PDH catalysts (Fig. 1B and fig. S4). All materials were pressed into pellets and sieved to prepare granules with sizes of 400 to 800 μm before loading into the reactor (see details in the supplemental materials). In M1, we used a dual-bed configuration in which FeVO4 was packed below 3V/Al, separated by a layer of inert quartz sand. In M2, we mixed the granules with FeVO4 and 3V/Al well. In M3, we used mixtures of FeVO4 and 3V/Al fine powders (50 to 75 μm), which were then pressed, crushed, and sieved to granules ranging in size from 400 to 800 μm. In M4, we mortar-ground mixtures of FeVO4 and 3V/Al powders to achieve nanoscale intimacy, where material transferred between particles so that both catalyst and oxygen carrier were on the surface of the same particle (denoted xFeV-3V/Al, where x represents the mass percentage of FeVO4 in the tandem catalysts) (figs. S5 and S6 and table S1).
Structural analysis of 30FeV-3V/Al tandem catalysts with nanoscale intimacy
We confirmed the feasibility of the structural hypothesis that 30FeV-3V/Al tandem catalysts (M4) achieved nanoscale intimacy with complementary characterization techniques. Powder x-ray diffraction patterns showed that 30FeV-3V/Al was composed of triclinic FeVO4 phase (PDF#25-0418) and γ-Al2O3 (Fig. 1C). The absence of vanadium oxide peaks implied the high dispersion of VOx species (fig. S7).
The in situ Raman spectrum of dehydrated 30FeV-3V/Al contained a set of characteristic peak bands between 200 and 1000 cm1 that we attributed to bulk FeVO4 (22) and a characteristic band at about 1020 cm1 that we attributed to V=O bonds in the highly dispersed VOx species on the surface of the γ-Al2O3 support (Fig. 1D) (23). High-resolution transmission electron microscopy images and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy mappings also showed independent FeVO4 nanoparticles (NPs) and highly dispersed VOx on Al2O3 (3V/Al) with nanoscale intimacy (figs. S8 and S9).
Electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) of the V L2,3 and Fe L2,3 edges crossing the interface of FeVO4 NPs and 3V/Al was used to identify the spatial distribution of the matrix (Fig. 1E), where three different zones were selected (Fig. 1F): (i) FeVO4 NPs, (ii) 3V/Al adjacent to FeVO4 NPs, and (iii) 3V/Al away from FeVO4 NPs. The variations of the intensity of the Fe L2,3 edges from zone 1 to zones 2 and 3 confirmed that the Fe atoms were exclusively concentrated in the FeVO4 NPs (Fig. 1G), as shown in the EELS elemental mappings of Fe and V (Fig. 1F).
The V L2,3 edges showed two adsorption jumps at E(L3) = 518.6 eV and E(L2) = 525.4 eV on the FeVO4 NPs (zone 1), illustrating the dominance of V5+ in FeVO4. The V L3 edge at the adjacent 3V/Al (zones 2 and 3) shifted toward lower energy compared with that at the FeVO4 NPs (zone 1), indicating that VOx species were in a mixed Vx+ (x = 3 to 5) valence state (Fig. 1H) (24), which was also evidenced by the deconvolution of V 2p x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy results (figs. S10 and S11). These characterizations support a structural model in which FeVO4 NPs are surrounded by the 3V/Al matrix and the NPs and matrix are situated in close proximity at the nanoscale.
Intimacy-dependent propylene selectivity and H combustion selectivity
We demonstrated the application of FeVO4-VOx tandem catalysts in a continuous PDH+CL-SHC scheme. The FeVO4 oxygen carrier alone tended to combust propane, but this reaction competed with PDH in the presence of 3V/Al catalysts (Fig. 2A and fig. S12). We observed strong correlations between the proximity of FeVO4 oxygen carriers and 3V/Al catalysts and the selectivity of propylene. Integrated catalysts with a dual-bed configuration (M1), in which FeVO4 was packed below the 3V/Al bed, and granular mixture of FeVO4 and 3V/Al (M2) exhibited rather high COx selectivity (34.5%) and poor propylene selectivity (56.2%) at 5 min on stream (fig. S13). Propylene selectivity was improved to 75.7% by changing the FeVO4 and 3V/Al into a closer proximity in M3 (Fig. 2A).
Fig. 2. Catalytic performance of tandem catalysts.
(A) Catalytic performance of tandem catalysts with different modes at 5 min on stream [550C, gas hourly space velocity (GHSV) = 2500 hour1, 10 vol % C3H8/N2]. (B) Propylene selectivity and Ftandem as a function of dFeVO4-3V/Al. (C) Comparison of 30FeV-3V/Al with best-performing reported ODH, PDH+SHC, PDH, CL-ODH, PDH+CO2, and PDH+CL-SHC catalysts, shown as triangles, squares, pentagons, hexagons, circles, and spheres, respectively (see table S3). The brown and green spheres of M4 indicate instantaneous performance at 5 min and integral performance during the course of 10-min PDH, respectively. Numbers indicate corresponding references, as also shown in table S3. (D) Data from 200 redox cycle tests on 30FeV-3V/Al catalysts at 550C. Conditions are as follows: dehydrogenation step, GHSV = 2500 hour1, 10 vol % C3H8/N2 = 20 ml min1 for 5 min; inert purge, N2 = 50 ml min1 for 5 min; and reoxidation step, 20 vol % O2/N2 = 20 ml min1 for 5 min. (E) Real-time TGA data of 30FeV-3V/Al catalysts over >300 hours at 550C.
We found that 30FeV-3V/Al (M4), which exhibited nanoscale intimacy, attained the highest propylene selectivity (86.3%) with negligible COx production (3.6%) and high carbon balance (97.3%) at 46.5% propane conversion (Fig. 2C and fig. S13) at 5 min on stream, which outperformed the 3V/Al (fig. S14), FeVO4, and state-of-the-art ODH, PDH+SHC, PDH, CL-ODH, PDH+CO2, and PDH+CL-SHC catalysts (6, 12, 16, 2540). On-line mass spectrometry (MS) results indicated that the lattice oxygens of FeVO4 that were involved in selective H combustion were sustained for at least 10 min during the course of PDH (fig. S15). The integral conversion of propane and propylene selectivity of the M4 catalyst with the consideration of coke deposits during the course of the 10-min reaction were determined to be 42.7 and 81.3%, respectively (fig. S16). Even at 40% propane concentration, the M4 catalysts achieved 93.6% propylene selectivity at 37.6% propane conversion (fig. S17) with a space-time yield of 14.6 mmol C3H6 g1cat hour1, which offered a potential advantage of the PDH+CL-SHC scheme over conventional PDH-SHC with O2 cofeeding catalytic systems (fig. S18).
We semiquantitatively estimated the distance between 3V/Al and FeVO4 (denoted dFeVO4-3V/Al) from the millimeter-scale to the nanoscale by a Monte Carlo method (fig. S19 and table S2) (41, 42). The dependence of propylene selectivity and H combustion selectivity Ftandem [denoted (1  H2/C3H6) × 100%] on dFeVO4-3V/Al indicated the communication between tandem catalysts (Fig. 2B). This result is consistent with the the closer, the better notion of intimacy put forward by Weisz in 1962 (43).
We further demonstrated the stability and recyclability of the 30FeV-3V/Al tandem redox catalysts with 200 redox cycles at 550C by switching propane and air as the reducing and oxidating gases, respectively (Fig. 2D). Real-time thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) showed that the oxygen release and weight loss in each cycle were maintained at values between 3.0 and 3.5% in a test lasting >300 hours (Fig. 2E), indicating the highly facile and reversible oxygen release and storage of 30FeV-3V/Al tandem catalysts with minor changes of diffraction peaks in the x-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (figs. S20 to S22).
In addition to intimacy-dependent propylene selectivity and H combustion selectivity, the H abstraction from propane on dehydrogenation sites played a prerequisite role for this H combustion. 3V/Al contains low loading of V (3 wt %), which can be easily reduced (fig. S23), and functions as dehydrogenation sites. Temperature-programmed surface reaction of propane indicated the sluggish activation of propane on 3V/Al at the low temperature of 450C (fig. S24), which leads to the absence of H abstraction and the subsequent site proximity independence (fig. S25). Alkali metals are selective titrants of acid-base pairs on oxide surfaces (44, 45), and we used sodium to poison the acid-base pairs of the 3V/Al surface. The absence of improvements in propylene selectivity also provided compelling evidence for the tandem process of PDH with CL-SHC, in which 3V/Al played the role of catalyst to abstract hydrogen and FeVO4 acted as the oxygen carrier to combust hydrogen (fig. S26). These results indicate that the intimacy-dependent propylene selectivity is closely related to the abstraction of hydrogen from propane over the PDH catalyst (3V/Al). We speculate that a surface diffusion mechanism of hydrogen species is responsible for the coupling of FeVO4 and 3V/Al catalysts to complete the tandem catalytic cycle.
Mechanistic studies of the hydrogen spillovercoupling mechanism of PDH with CL-SHC
We performed H2 temperature-programmed reduction (H2-TPR) to investigate the redox properties of tandem catalysts and validate the spillover of hydrogen intermediates (Fig. 3A and figs. S27 and S28). The temperature of the reduction peak shifted toward lower temperatures with an increase in intimacy from M1 to M4. The peak position of the nanoscale-integrated 30FeV-3V/Al catalysts shifted to 475C, which is near the position of the intrinsic reduction peak of 3V/Al and lower than that of FeVO4. In situ XRD with temperatures ramping from 50 to 600C under H2/argon indicated that pure FeVO4 NPs showed a phase transformation from triclinic phase FeVO4 to spinel Fe1.5V1.5O4 (PDF#04-005-6267) near 600C. By contrast, the intensified hydrogen spillover facilitated the phase change of a FeVO4 NP initially at 450C when it was in proximity with 3V/Al (Fig. 3, B and C).
Fig. 3. Hydrogen spillovermediated coupling of PDH and CL-SHC.
(A) H2-TPR of FeVO4 and 3V/Al catalysts with different tandem modes. (B and C) In situ XRD patterns of FeVO4 (B) and 30FeV-3V/Al (C) under 10 vol % H2 ramping from 50 to 600C. Numbers in parentheses indicate the representative crystalline planes. (D to F) In situ DRIFTs of 3V/Al (D) and 30FeV-3V/Al (E) and the relative intensity of AlIVOH (F) under 10 vol % C3H8 at a pressure of 1 torr at 550C. The inset schematic in (F) depicts the evolution processes of AlIVOH. (G) Calculated potential energy diagrams of H* on VOx/Al2O3 and VOx/Al2O3+FeVO4 with the corresponding structures along the reaction paths. Color scheme is as follows: O, red; Al, taupe; V, gray; and Fe, blue. TS indicates the transition state, and MS indicates the ending state, either H2O(g) or H2(g).
Analysis of the thermogravimetry relaxation curves showed a higher oxygen release rate for M4 than for FeVO4 (fig. S29). Thus, the reactive hydrogen species from the dissociation of H2 on VOx sites may substantially expedite the reduction of adjacent FeVO4 by hydrogen spillover. The combustion of hydrogen species on FeVO4 can be considered as a pump for transferring hydrogen species. In the hydrogen-spillover effect identified here, hydrogen atoms were generated at the oxide site, in contrast to the conventional scenario, in which hydrogen atoms are primarily produced on the surface of metal NPs (4650). Isothermal MS, in which propane was fed to 30FeV-3V/Al tandem catalysts at 550C, showed the evolution of propylene and H2 signals (fig. S30) along with an initial rise and downward depression in the H2 signal and the appearance of H2O signal. Thus, hydrogen was consumed through the hydrogen spilloverassisted SHC.
When cofeeding H2 with C3H8 and C3H6, for pure FeVO4, the formation rates of COx that resulted from the overoxidation of C3H8 and C3H6 were substantially reduced from 0.55 to 0.30 mmol gcat1 min1 at 2 min on stream (fig. S31). Density functional theory (DFT) calculations evidenced the lower adsorption energy of H* compared with that of C3H7 and C3H6 on FeVO4, and the increase in the H* coverage led to the decrease in the adsorption strength of C3H7 and C3H6 (fig. S32). Such results underpin a mechanism in which propane dissociated on the dispersed VOx sites to produce hydrogen intermediates, which then spilled and preferentially oxidized over the adjacent FeVO4 sites. This consequently suppressed the overoxidation of C3H6 (or other C3H8-derived species), with a distance-dependent hydrogen-spillover effect (see detailed discussion in fig. S32).
This hypothesis of hydrogen spillovermediated coupling of PDH with CL-SHC was further supported by in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform (DRIFT) experiments. By following the transient switches between the argon and C3H8 (10 vol % in argon) at 550C, three distinct surface hydroxyl groups bands appeared at 3750, 3690, and 3650 cm1, which we assigned to the AlVOH, AlIVOH, and VOH (23, 51), respectively (Fig. 3, D and E, and fig. S33). This finding was substantiated by hydrogen-deuterium (H-D) exchange experiments (fig. S34). The emergence of VOH features indicated that CH bond activation occurred on the VOx site, accompanied by the reduction of the V=O bond. The characteristic peaks of AlVOH and AlIVOH were indicative of the cleavage of the VOAl bonds and the H species transferring to adjacent AlO sites from the VOx sites, respectively. Figure 3F shows the variations in integral intensities of the AlIVOH infrared signal under the C3H8 atmosphere with reaction time. On the 3V/Al catalysts, AlIVOH species experienced a sharp increase within a 10-min period, which accounts for almost 85% of the integral intensity of the infrared signal during the steady state. By contrast, AlIVOH species on the 30FeV-3V/Al catalysts were less dominant within the 10-min period and accounted for only 8% of integral intensity of the steady state.
We inferred that the adjacent FeVO4 with nanoscale proximity triggered the migration of atomic hydrogen species from VOx toward FeVO4 to combust the hydrogen species. With the sustained consumption of lattice oxygen of FeVO4, the driving force for hydrogen combustion becomes weak, and the hydrogen species diffuse to adjacent AlO sites. This process was evidenced by the notable increase in AlIVOH species after the 10-min period. Similar results were observed on the 30FeV-3V/Al, 3V/Al, and FeVO4 catalysts when exposed to the transient switches between the argon and H2 (10 vol % in argon) conditions (fig. S35).
Theoretical calculations
DFT calculations offered a more comprehensive understanding of the adsorption and spillover characteristics of hydrogen on the surface of each catalyst. Hydrogen adsorption energies (HAE) were first calculated on FeVO4 and dimer VOx on γ-Al2O3 (Fig. 3G and figs. S36 and S37). The process of hydrogen adsorption on FeVO4 was exothermic, with an adsorption energy value (1.49 eV) that was lower than those with V2O5/Al2O3 (1.15 eV), V2O4/Al2O3 (0.89 eV), and V2O3/Al2O3 (0.86 eV). These findings suggest that the hydrogen spillover toward FeVO4 becomes thermodynamically favorable in comparison with that toward VOx/Al2O3. For dimer V2O4/Al2O3, the formation of H2* (MS2 in red in Fig. 3G) had a high activation barrier. Therefore, the H* spillover (ΔE = 1.09 eV) took precedence over the formation of H2O and H2 (ΔE = 1.27 eV), illustrating that the occurrence of hydrogen spillover from the VOx site to FeVO4 is feasible. The reaction energy profile of the H intermediates toward H2O (ΔE = 0.50 eV) indicated the favorable formation of H2O(g) rather than H2(g) on the FeVO4 surface, denoting the selective H combustion on VOx+FeVO4 tandem catalysts (Fig. 3G).
Related tandem catalysts
To assess the generality and prowess of hydrogen spilloverassisted coupling of PDH and CL-SHC, we investigated the catalytic behaviors from two perspectives. We either altered the PDH catalysts by replacing 3V/Al with 3Zn/Al, 3Ga/Al, or 3Cr/Al or replaced FeVO4 as the oxygen carrier with V2O5 in different tandem modes, as mentioned in the previous section of tandem catalyst systems (fig. S38). As expected, we observed strong correlations between the intimacy and selectivity of propylene (figs. S39 to S44), following the closer, the better criteria. Generally, the related tandem catalysts with nanoscale proximity exhibit better propylene yield than their corresponding parent systems. These results support that this hydrogen spillovermediated coupling mechanism occurs in a tandem fashion with nanoscale proximity.
Conclusions
We demonstrated a hydrogen spillovermediated coupling of PDH and CL-SHC at the nanoscale by using multifunctional tandem redox catalysts. Different tandem modes with site proximities ranging from the millimeter-scale to the nanoscale were investigated, validating the selectivity of propylene production in an intimacy-dependent manner. Experiments and theoretical analysis demonstrated that hydrogen intermediates formed at the VOx sites migrated to adjacent FeVO4 oxygen carriers for combustion, refining the tandem process of PDH with CL-SHC. Given that many industrial-relevant chemical conversion processes are endothermic and equilibrium-limited, we anticipate that this concept of hydrogen spilloverassisted CL-SHC and the coupling mechanism of tandem catalysis identified here will open new avenues to guide intensification of the chemical engineering process.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 