I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Physiochemical Properties of Alkylaminium Sulfates: Hygroscopicity, Thermostability, and Density
Abstract
Although heterogeneous interaction of amines has been recently shown to play an important role in the formation and growth of atmospheric aerosols, little information is available on the physicochemical properties of aminium sulfates. In this study, the hygroscopicity, thermostability, and density of alkylaminium sulfates (AASs) have been measured by an integrated aerosol analytical system including a tandem differential mobility analyzer and an aerosol particle mass analyzer. AAS aerosols exhibit monotonic size growth at increasing RH without a well-defined deliquescence point. Mixing of ammonium sulfate (AS) with AASs lowers the deliquescence point corresponding to AS. Particles with AASs show comparable or higher thermostability than that of AS. The density of AASs is determined to be 1.21.5 g cm3, and an empirical model is developed to predict the density of AASs on the basis of the mole ratio of alkyl carbons to total sulfate. Our results reveal that the heterogeneous uptake of amines on sulfate particles may considerably alter the aerosol properties. In particular, the displacement reaction of alkylamines with ammonium sulfate aerosols leads to a transition from the crystalline to an amorphorous phase and an improved water uptake, considerably enhancing their direct and indirect climate forcing.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Amines are important atmospheric trace constituents generated from both biogenic (e.g., emission from ocean and biomass burning) and anthropogenic sources (including animal husbandry, automobiles, cooking and sewage, etc.). (1) For example, alkylamines with short alkyl side chains are frequently observed in field measurements, and the global total emission of monomethylamine (MMA), dimethylamine (DMA), and trimethylamine (TMA) is estimated as 300 Gg N a1. (1) The reaction pathways for alkylamines include oxidation reactions with OH, O3 and NO3, and heterogeneous reactions leading to formation and growth of aerosols, as observed in both field measurements and laboratory experiments. (2-7) In particular, because of their strong basicity, alkylamines react efficiently with acidic aerosols such as sulfuric acid to form alkylaminium salts, contributing to particle growth, (8, 9) which has been suggested by recent field measurements. (10, 11) The reactions between alkylamines and ammonium salts have also received much attention recently. (12-15) Displacement reaction between alkylamines and ammonium sulfate (AS) or ammonium nitrate has been observed, and its occurrence has been found to be unaffected by the presence of an excess amount of gaseous ammonia. (12, 13, 15) Alkylamines react with ammonium bisulfate (ABS) clusters via displacement or neutralization mechanism depending on the cluster size. (14) The uptake coefficients of alkylamines on ammonium nitrate and sulfate have been reported on the order of 102 to 103, whereas the reaction between alkylamines and ammonium bisulfate has been found to be diffusionally limited. (12, 15) The previous kinetic measurements suggest that under atmospheric conditions alkylamines form a layer of alkylaminium salts on the ammonium salt aerosol surface within several minutes and its thickness accumulates over time. (15) Recent field measurements suggest that the molar ratio of aminium and ammonium ions in the particle phase can be as high as 0.2 on certain locations. (16)
Currently, there are rather limited studies on the thermodynamic properties of aminium salts, especially for alkylaminium sulfates (AASs), which can be present in the particle phase by heterogeneous reactions summarized above. A previous study found that ammonium sulfate fertilizer treated with monomethylaminium sulfate (MMAS) resulted in a lower deliquescence point. (17) Using X-ray diffraction, MMAS crystal was estimated to have a density of (1.375  0.04) g cm3 and its volatilization and melting occurred at 170 and 195 C respectively with no residue after the thermo decomposition. (18) Another NMR study of MMAS revealed the existence of several crystal phases at different temperatures. (19) A calorimeter experiment determined the standard heat of formation of MMAS to be (1155.2  0.8) kJ mol1, about (12.0  2.1) kJ mol1 smaller than that of AS. (20) A previous environmental chamber study found that the reaction between MMA and AS aerosol reduced the aerosol density by (0.1  0.1) g cm3. (21) Also, nanoparticles of alkylaminium carboxylate salts were found to be more stable than AS above 80 C, but their hygroscopic growth factors at 90% relative humidity (RH) were less than that of AS. (22) Recently, the enthalpy of vaporization has been determined for nitrate salts of MMA, DMA, TMA, ethylamine, and ethanolamine using a volatility tandem differential mobility analyzer with the values close to that of ammonium nitrate. (23)
In this study, we have conducted laboratory experiments to investigate several important physicochemical properties of alkylaminium sulfates, including hygroscopicity, thermostability, and density by an integrated aerosol analytical system. Five representative alkylamines were used, including MMA, DMA, TMA, diethylamine (DEA), and triethylamine (TEA), which correspond to those commonly observed in field measurements of atmospheric aerosols. The properties of AAS-AS mixtures were also determined to evaluate the impacts of formation of alkylaminium sulfates on the properties of AS aerosols.
Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Five AASs, MMAS, dimethylaminium sulfate (DMAS), trimethylaminium sulfate (TMAS), diethylaminium sulfate (DEAS), and triethylaminium sulfate (TEAS) were prepared by mixing stoichiometric amounts of a diluted alkylamine aqueous solution and a diluted sulfuric acid aqueous solution. The resulting alkylaminium sulfate stock solution had a typical concentration of 1 wt %. AAS-AS mixture with a specific mass ratio was prepared by adding a known amount of AS solid to an appropriate volume of the AAS stock solution; the resulting solution was then diluted to a final total salt concentration of 1 wt %.
The AAS or AAS-AS mixture solution was then transferred into a constant output atomizer (Model 3076, TSI), where aerosols were generated and diluted with dry Nitrogen. A small fraction (10%) of aerosols was sampled, dried to RH 5% by a Nafion drier (PD-07018T-12SS, Perma Pure), charged by a 210Po bipolar charger, and analyzed by an integrated aerosol analytical system, as described in detail previously. (24, 25) A schematic presentation of the experimental setup is shown in Figure 1. Briefly, the aerosol system was composed of two differential mobility analyzers (DMA, Model 3081, TSI), an aerosol particle mass analyzer (APM, Model 3600, Kanomax), a condensation particle counter (CPC, Model 3760A, TSI), a heater, and a humidifier (Figure 1). Dependent of the thermodynamic properties to be measured, the aerosol system operated in several modes, including scanning mobility particle sizer (SMPS), (26) tandem differential mobility analyzer (TDMA), (27, 28) and differential mobility analyzer-aerosol particle mass analyzer-condensation particle counter (DMA-APM-CPC). (29, 30) Additional processing options of the aerosol system included heating and humidifying, selected by means of a three-way switching valve. Aerosol samples were analyzed using the SMPS mode to ensure the size distributions for all AAS species to be constant for each measurement.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic representation of the experiment procedure and instrument setup.
The hygroscopicity of aminium sulfates was measured by the TDMA mode with a humidifier (HTDMA) and the RH before and after DMA2 was tuned to be within 2%. The hygroscopic diametric growth factor (HGfd) was defined by the ratio of Dp,RH/Dp,0, where Dp,RH and Dp,0 represent the mobility sizes after DMA2 at an elevated RH and at RH 12%, respectively. The measured values of HGfds for all species corresponded to a random error within 1%.
The thermostability measurements were performed using the DMA-APM-CPC mode with the heater. Aerosol sample was size-selected by DMA1 and processed by the heater. The resulting particles were then transferred into APM to determine the APM voltage V required to balance the centrifugal force on particles in the APM. (30) The APM voltage V was linear to the aerosol mass m. The aerosol mass change, denoted as Gfm, is determined as:
(1)
where mT and VT are the particle mass and corresponding APM voltage after particle heating at a temperature of T, and m0 and V0 correspond to those before heating at room temperature. The random error in APM voltage was found to be within 1.5%. No significant change in the particle mass was observed when the residence time in the tubing was changed, suggesting that AASs were stable at room temperature. After each volatility measurement, the system was properly cleaned and purged with particle free air for an extended period of time to remove possible contaminates from thermal decomposition of AASs.
Density measurements were also performed using the DMA-APM-CPC mode for all AASs. At room temperature, particles with mobility sizes Dp of 81, 97, 151, and 240 nm were measured at least three times for each size to determine the corresponding APM voltages V at 10% RH. The APM voltages VPSL for polystyrene latex (PSL, Duke Scientific) particles with the same sizes was also determined. Since the mass mPSL for PSL particles is known, the mass m of AAS particles can be calculated by eq 2.
(2)
Assuming a spherical shape, the particle effective density ρ is calculated by a linear regression of the mass and volume. Fractal dimension, Dfm, is determined by the relation: m  DpDfm (24) Aerosol mass after heated at 80 C is calculated similarly. Furthermore, thermo-TDMA (TTDMA) measurements were performed where monodispersed aerosols of size Dp1 were obtained by DMA1 and subsequently heated to 80 C before their size Dp2 was determined by DMA2. The thermo diametric growth factor, TGfd, was defined as Dp2/Dp1, and used to calculate the volume change upon heating. The change in density of the heated aerosols was then determined.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Hygroscopicity of Alkylaminium Sulfates
The deliquescent behaviors of HGfds for AASs in 1090% RH range are presented in Figure 2. HGfds for particles with four initial mobility sizes of 80, 100, 150, and 240 nm are measured, and the results reveal no apparent Kelvin effect. Aerosols of all AASs exhibit a monotonic increase in size when exposed to increasing RH without a clear deliquescence point, suggesting that AASs readily absorb water even at low RH to lead to aerosol volume and mass increases. Interestingly, the HGfds at RH < 80% decrease systematically when the alkyl carbon number in AASs increases from MMAS to TEAS. However, there exists little trend in HGfds with respect to the alkyl carbon number among different AASs when RH reaches 90%. For example, the HGfds for MMAS and TMAS are smaller than those of DMAS and DEAS, respectively.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Deliquescent profiles of hygroscopic diametric growth factor (HGfd) for alkylaminium sulfates when exposed to increasing RH: pink hexagons, monomethylaminium sulfate (MMAS); red squares, dimethylaminium sulfate (DMAS); green diamonds, trimethylaminium sulfate (TMAS); blue up-triangles, diethylaminium sulfate (DEAS); cyan down-triangles, triethylaminium sulfate (TEAS). Solid lines are connections through the experimental points. Values are averages from measurements on aerosols with initial mobility diameters of 80, 100, 150, and 240 nm with a random error of less than 1% in HGfd.
The aerosol size growth at elevated RH can be estimated from the initial aerosol density ρ0, final density ρ1, and salt weight concentration ω of the final solution:
(3)
No previous experiment data are available on the dependence of the density of AAS solutions as a function the salt concentration. However, because solid AASs have a higher density than that of water it is likely that ρ1 decreases when ω decreases as observed in AS and ABS solutions (31, 32) resulting in an aerosol size increase as observed. At 90% RH, DMAS may absorb more water than MMAS causing a larger decrease in ω and ρ1. As a result, although MMAS has a higher initial density, its HGfd is smaller than that of DMAS at 90% RH. Such an explanation is also applicable for the case of TMAS and DEAS: DEAS may uptake more water at 90% RH and have a higher HGfd. Further investigation on AAS aqueous solution density is warranted for a quantitative analysis and simulation of the AAS hygroscopic behaviors. Also, hygroscopicity measurements close to the water saturation condition (RH 100%) are necessary to evaluate the contribution of AASs to cloud droplet activation.
To further assess the impact of AAS on particle hygroscopicity, the deliquescence profiles of pure AS, DMAS-AS, and MMAS-AS mixtures with the mass ratios of 1:1 and 1:9 are measured as shown in Figure 3. Deliquescence of AS occurs sharply at RH 79%. When 10 wt % of DMAS or MMAS is added to AS particles, there still exists an apparent deliquescence point at 71% RH when sharp hygroscopic growth occurs, but there is an increase in HGfd even at 1070% RH suggesting that MMAS and DMAS absorb water even with a low mass fraction in particles. The effect of AAS on aerosol hygroscopic behavior is more pronounced with AAS-AS particles containing 50 wt % of DMAS or MMAS, where no clear deliquescence point is identifiable. Because of the similarity in hygroscopicity for all AASs, our results suggest that incorporation of AAS into AS aerosols can considerably lower the deliquescence point for AS particles.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Deliquescent profiles for alkylaminium-ammonium sulfate mixtures. a) Hygroscopic diametric growth factor (HGfd) profiles for monomethylaminium sulfate (MMAS) and ammonium sulfate (AS) mixtures: black circles, AS; blue squares, mixture with MMAS:AS = 1:9 by mass; green triangles, mixture with MMAS:AS = 1:1 by mass; red diamonds, MMAS. b) HGfd profiles for dimethylaminium sulfate (DMAS) and AS mixtures: black circles, AS; dark-blue squares, mixture with DMAS:AS = 1:9 by mass; dark-green triangles, mixture with DMAS:AS = 1:1 by mass; dark-red diamonds, DMAS. Solid lines are connections through the experimental points. Values are averages from measurements on aerosols with initial mobility diameters of 80, 100, 150, and 240 nm with a random error of less than 1% in HGfd.
Thermostability of Alkylaminium Sulfates
Figure 4 depicts the Gfm profiles of AASs and AS aerosols with 100 nm initial diameter in the temperature range of 25200 C. For AS aerosols, a small discontinuous step occurs around 100 C, likely attributed to the formation of ABS. (33) Rapid mass loss takes place in the temperature range of 130160 C, higher than that determined for 7.5 nm AS particles; (22) this behavior may be explained by the Kelvin effect that is significant for nanoparticles. (2) In general, all AASs volatilizes rapidly in the temperature range of 130170 C. DMAS appears to be the most stable species, followed by MMAS and DEAS, whereas TMAS and TEAS have a thermostability similar to that of AS. The volatilization temperature range for MMAS aerosols is lower than that determined previously on MMAS crystals, which was estimated by a melting-point apparatus involving a larger sample quantity. (18) This difference may suggest that MMAS aerosols in our experiments are not crystalline but rather amorphous.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Aerosol mass change (Gfm) profiles of alkylaminium sulfates and ammonium sulfate (AS) in the temperature range 25200 C: pink hexagons, monomethylaminium sulfate (MMAS); red squares, dimethylaminium sulfate (DMAS); green diamonds, trimethylaminium sulfate (TMAS); blue up-triangles, diethylaminium sulfate (DEAS); cyan down-triangles, triethylaminium sulfate (TEAS); black circles, AS. Solid lines are connections through the experimental points. Values are calculated from mass measurements on aerosols with an initial mobility diameter of 97 nm with a random error of less than 3%.
For all species, the measured thermostability profile resembles the shape of a reversed sigmoidal curve, which can be described by the expression,
(4)
where A1 and A2 denote the upper and lower limits of the data set, Ts represents temperature at which the volatilization rate is the largest, and dT is the temperature range where the volatilization takes place. The four parameters for AASs and AS are determining by fitting the experiment data Gfm and T with eq 4.
The Ts values for all AASs and AS are determined and listed in Table 1, providing quantitative data for thermostability comparison. The relative thermostability for AASs and AS is in the order as listed below:
Table 1. Thermostability and Density Data for Aminium Sulfates
saltTsa, CDfmbdc, g cm3dhd, g cm3
MMAS161  22.9  0.11.438  0.0271.485  0.089
DMAS165  22.9  0.11.351  0.0261.408  0.084
TMAS146  22.9  0.11.307  0.0261.342  0.081
DEAS156  23.0  0.11.211  0.0231.268  0.076
TEAS150  22.9  0.11.183  0.0231.247  0.075
AS148  2-1.778  0.020;e 1.77f-
aValues with confidence intervals were obtained from fitting the aerosol mass change Gfm profiles in 25200 C with a reversed-sigmoidal function. Measurements were carried out with aerosol particles with an initial mobility diameter of 97 nm.
bAll measurements were performed at 298 K on particles with mobility diameters of 81, 97, 151, and 240 nm. At least three measurements were performed for each size and the random error in APM voltage is within 1.5%.
cDensity values were obtained by linear regression of mass against volume assuming spherical aerosol shape. Random error in density measurements was less than 1.5%.
dDensity values were determined for particles with initial mobility diameter of 97 nm. The aerosols were heated to 80 C before the changes in mass and size were measured.
eDensity value was determined for particles with mobility diameter of 97 nm at room temperature.
fHaynes, W. M. CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 92nd ed.; CRC Press/Taylor and Francis: Boca Raton, FL, 2011.
For all AASs, A1 is close to 0 and dT is about 9 C. In principle, if particles contain entirely pure AAS, A2 is expected to be 1. Because A2 determined from our experiments ranges from 0.91 to 0.99, this suggests that particles measured at room temperature may contain small amount of water, which reflects the hygroscopic nature of AASs.
Densities of Alkylaminium Sulfates
The mass of aerosols with known mobility sizes from 80 to 240 nm is measured using the DMA-APM-CPC mode to establish the mass-mobility relationship. The effective density ρ at room temperature can then be calculated by plotting mass against volume, assuming a spherical shape; the linearity of the plots is high. The fractal dimension Dfm can also be determined, which is close to 3.0 for all AASs (Table 1). Hence, AAS aerosols are highly uniform and compact in shape, indicating that the particles are close to be spherical. As a result, AAS effective density corresponds to their material density. (34)
The AAS density values measured at room temperature are summarized in Table 1 ranging from 1.2 to 1.4 g cm3. For comparison, the density of 97 nm AS particles is estimated to be 1.778 g cm3 by our system. Interestingly, the density of AASs decreases as the total alkyl carbon number in AAS increases from 2 to 12. This suggests that an increase in the AAS total carbon number may contribute more to increase in particle volume than in mass. AAS can be considered as an AS molecule with the methylene group (CH2) inserted between NH or NC bond. For example, MMAS with the structure of (HCH2NH3)2SO4 can be treated as AS with two methylene groups, and similarly, DMAS, (HCH2CH2NH3)2SO4 as AS with four methylene groups. The total alkyl carbon number n in the AAS molecule represents the number of methylene groups inserted into an AS molecule to form the corresponding AAS. A semiempirical model is then developed to predict the density ρ of alkylaminium sulfates:
(5)
where ρAS is the material density of AS, 1.77 g cm3, parameter a is the relative increase in mass when one methylene group is added to an AS molecule and has a constant value of 14.03/132.16 = 0.106, and parameter b is defined as the volume increase factor (VIF), which represents the relative increase in volume when one methylene group is introduced to the compound. On the basis of our density measurements, b is determined as (0.210  0.005). The parametrized density curve based on the model is plotted in Figure 5.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Density of ammonium sulfate (AS) and alkylaminium sulfates (black circles) plotted against the alkyl carbon number n and the fit curve (red line) based on the density prediction model. Densities of monomethylaminium sulfate-AS (MMAS-AS, green squares) and dimethylaminium sulfate-AS (DMAS-AS, blue diamonds) mixtures are determined by measuring the density of particles with 97 nm mobility diameter at least three times with a random error of within 1.5%.
It may be possible to expend our model to predict the density of AAS-AS mixture if the definition of n is generalized to the CH2/total sulfate (AS + AAS) mole ratio in the mixture. To evaluate this hypothesis, the density values of aerosol particles containing MMAS-AS and DMAS-AS mixtures with mass ratios of 1:1 and 1:9 are measured and the results agree with calculated valued based on our model within 5% differences (Figure 5). Because the ammonia concentration is usually 10 times higher that those of alkylamines in the atmosphere, the CH2/total sulfate ratio is expected to be less than 2. This suggests that the density of AAS-AS mixture can be estimated by our model if the CH2/total sulfate ratio is determined.
Our measurements show that AAS aerosols are highly hygroscopic and contain water even at low RH because, after heating to 80 C, those particles lose about 38% in mass, which is likely due to loss of water. To evaluate the effect of water on our density measurements, TTDMA measurements are carried out where AAS aerosols are heated to about 80 C and the changes in particle size are monitored. The change in particle volume is combined with our mass measurements at 80 C to determine the relative change in the effective density due to heating. The effective density of the heated AAS aerosols (ρh) is then calculated as shown in Table 1, which is about 5% higher than the room temperature measurement values.
Atmospheric Implications
Atmospheric aerosols influence the Earthatmosphere system in several distinct ways, that is impacting the Earths energy balance directly by scattering and absorbing solar radiation and indirectly by modifying cloud formation and altering the lifetime and albedo of clouds, (35, 36) human health, (37) multiphase chemical processes, (38) and photochemistry. (39, 40) Many of the atmospheric effects of aerosols are dependent on their physiochemical properties. For example, the ability of aerosols to activate as cloud droplets and to scatter and absorb the visible and terrestrial radiation is strongly linked to their hygroscopicity. (25, 41) Furthermore, the hygroscopic behaviors of aerosols also have an important feedback on aerosol growth. A more efficient water uptake increases the particle size and, consequently, enhances particle growth processes related to condensation, partitioning, and heterogeneous reactions of organics, (42-44) which are produced from photochemical oxidation of anthropogenic and biogenic hydrocarbons. (45-47)
Alkylamines are incorporated into the particle phase to form AASs by heterogeneous reactions with sulfuric acid, AS, and ABS in aerosols. It has been estimated that, at 10% RH for 1 ppb DMA and 100 nm diameter AS particles, a layer of 2 and 25 nm DMAS shell can form within 20 s and about 2 h respectively and this process is likely irreversible. (12, 15) On the basis of our hygroscopicity measurements, such a change in the aerosol surface composition can significantly alter the particle hygroscopic behaviors. For example, with a change in RH from 10% to 60%, a particle coated with a 25 nm DMAS shell will grow 12 nm in diameter by absorbing water. Our results show that a small mass fraction (10 wt %) of AAS such as MMAS and DMAS considerably lowers the deliquescence point and enhance water adsorption on AS particles. The lack of a well-defined deliquescence point likely reflects that particles containing AASs are amorphorous. It has been reported that ambient aerosols exhibit deliquescent profiles that increase monotonically even after exposed to ammonia, (48) but the hygroscopic size growth is too small to be explained alone by the presence of ammonium nitrate. Our laboratory results offer a plausible explanation for the field measurement, indicating that the presence of AASs in aerosols can be responsible for particle growth at low RH. Hence, we conclude that the displacement reaction of alkylamines with ammonium sulfate aerosols leads to a transition from the crystalline to an amorphorous phase and an improved water uptake, considerably enhancing their direct and indirect climate forcing.
Our thermostability measurements suggest that AASs have comparable (TMAS and TEAS) or higher thermostability (MMAS, DMAS and DEAS) than AS, indicating that AASs represent a stable form in the particle-phase and can account for aminium ions commonly observed in the atmosphere, along with aminium carboxylates and aminium nitrate. (22, 23) A minimum temperature of 200 C is required to fully volatilize AASs from the particle-phase in aerosol composition analysis. It has been reported that the aminium nitrate and sulfate content of ambient aerosols only accounted for 19% of the total particle mass after the aerosol sample was heated to 230 C. (49) It is likely that such a high temperature may partially decompose the aminium sulfates in ambient particle phase and lead to an underestimation of the particle amine content. Field measurements have suggested that dialkylaminium ions such as DMAH+ are more abundant in the particle phase that other alkylaminium ions, (5, 10, 50) which have been attributed to several factors, including the differences in their gas-phase abundance, uptake kinetics, or thermodynamic properties. However, the differences in the concentrations for MMA and DMA may not be significant globally (1) or locally. (51) In laboratory uptake experiments, the reactivity of DMA and MMA with sulfuric acid is comparable, (9) and DMA reacts with ammonium sulfate solid slower than MMA. (15) Those results indicate that a selective accumulation of dialkylaminium ions is not kinetically preferred. On the other hand, our thermostability measurements reveal that DMAS are thermally more stable than other AASs, offering a possible explanation that dialkylaminium ions may be favored in thermodynamic equilibrium, resulting higher concentrations in particles.
Our results reveal that uptake of alkylamines on AS aerosols lowers the aerosol density. For a 100 nm AS particle exposed to 1 ppb of DMA for two hours at 10% RH, we estimate that the aerosol density decreases to 1.43 g cm3, which is about 80% of the initial density. The semiempirical model developed in this study can be widely employed to predict the density of AAS-AS mixtures, if the mole ratio of the alkyl carbons to total sulfate (AS + AAS) can be determined.
Future studies are needed to determine the physiochemical properties of other important alkylaminium salts. For example, aminium carboxylates represent another broad category of species formed in nucleation and growth of atmospheric aerosols. (22, 52-55)
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Renyi Zhang - Department of Chemistry and Department of Atmospheric Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843, United States ;  Email: Renyi-zhang@tamu.edu
Author
Chong Qiu - Department of Chemistry and Department of Atmospheric Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843, United States
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 