I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Engineering Nanostructured Interfaces of Hexagonal Boron Nitride-Based Materials for Enhanced Catalysis
Abstract
Conspectus
Hexagonal boron nitrides (h-BNs) are attractive two-dimensional (2D) nanomaterials that consist of alternating B and N atoms and layered honeycomb-like structures similar to graphene. They have exhibited unique properties and promising application potentials in the field of energy storage and transformation. Recent advances in utilizing h-BN as a metal-free catalyst in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane have triggered broad interests in exploring h-BN in catalysis. However, h-BN-based materials as robust nanocatalysts in heterogeneous catalysis are still underexplored because of the limited methodologies capable of affording h-BN with controllable crystallinity, abundant porosity, high purity, and defect engineering, which played important roles in tuning their catalytic performance. In this Account, our recent progress in addressing the above issues will be highlighted, including the synthesis of high-quality h-BN-based nanomaterials via both bottom-up and top-down pathways and their catalytic utilization as metal-free catalysts or as supports to tune the interfacial electronic properties on the metal nanoparticles (NPs). First, we will focus on the large-scale fabrication of h-BN nanosheets (h-BNNSs) with high crystallinity, improved surface area, satisfactory purity, and tunable defects. h-BN derived from the traditional approaches using boron trioxide and urea as the starting materials generally contains carbon/oxygen impurities and has low crystallinity. Several new strategies were developed to address the issues. Using bulk h-BN as the precursor via gas exfoliation in liquid nitrogen, single- or few-layered h-BNNS with abundant defects could be generated. Amorphous h-BN precursors could be converted to h-BN nanosheets with high crystallinity assisted by a magnesium metallic flux via a successive dissolution/precipitation/crystallization procedure. The as-fabricated h-BNNS featured high crystallinity and purity as well as abundant porosity. An ionothermal metathesis procedure was developed using inorganic molten salts (NaNH2 and NaBH4) as the precursors. The h-BN scaffolds could be produced on a large scale with high yield, and the as-afforded materials possessed high purity and crystallinity. Second, utilization of the as-prepared h-BN library as metal-free catalysts in dehydrogenation and hydrogenation reactions will be summarized, in which they exhibited enhanced catalytic activity over the counterparts from the previous synthesis method. Third, the interface modulation between metal NPs with the as-prepared defects abundant h-BN support will be highlighted. The h-BN-based strong metalsupport interaction (SMSI) nanocatalysts were constructed without involving reducible metal oxides via the ionothermal procedure we developed by deploying specific inorganic metal salts, acting as robust nanocatalysts in CO oxidation. Under conditions simulated for practical exhaust systems, promising catalytic efficiency together with high thermal stability and sintering resistance was achieved. Across all of these examples, unique insights into structures, defects, and interfaces that emerge from in-depth characterization through microscopy, spectroscopy, and diffraction will be highlighted.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Key References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Chen, H.; Xiong, C.; Moon, J.; Ivanov, A. S.; Lin, W.; Wang, T.; Fu, J.; Jiang, D.-e.; Wu, Z.; Yang, Z.; Dai, S. Defect-Regulated Frustrated-Lewis-Pair Behavior of Boron Nitride in Ambient Pressure Hydrogen Activation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 106881069310.1021/jacs.2c00343. (1) This paper describes the anchoring of sterically hindered Lewis acid (B center) and Lewis base (N center) sites within the rigid lattice of highly crystalline hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) scaffolds via precision defect regulation toward hydrogen activation.
Chen, H.; Yang, S.-Z.; Yang, Z.; Lin, W.; Xu, H.; Wan, Q.; Suo, X.; Wang, T.; Jiang, D.-e.; Fu, J.; Dai, S. Sinter-Resistant Nanoparticle Catalysts Achieved by 2D Boron Nitride-Based Strong MetalSupport Interactions: A New Twist on an Old Story. ACS Cent. Sci. 2020, 6, 1617162710.1021/acscentsci.0c00822. (2) This paper demonstrates the construction of nonoxide-derived strong metalsupport interaction (SMSI) nanocatalysts based on highly crystalline and nanoporous h-BN materials via in situ encapsulation and reduction using NaBH4, NaNH2, and noble metal salts as precursors.
Chen, H.; Yang, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Chen, Z.; Chi, M.; Wang, S.; Fu, J.; Dai, S. Construction of a nanoporous highly crystalline hexagonal boron nitride from an amorphous precursor for catalytic dehydrogenation. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 106261063010.1002/anie.201904996. (3) This paper develops a novel and simple protocol for the conversion of amorphous h-BN precursors to highly crystalline h-BN nanosheets (h-BNNSs) through a successive dissolution/precipitation/crystallization process in the presence of magnesium.
Zhu, W.; Wu, Z.; Foo, G. S.; Gao, X.; Zhou, M.; Liu, B.; Veith, G. M.; Wu, P.; Browning, K. L.; Lee, H. N.; Li, H.; Dai, S.; Zhu, H. Taming interfacial electronic properties of platinum nanoparticles on vacancy-abundant boron nitride nanosheets for enhanced catalysis. Nat. Commun. 2017, 8, 1529110.1038/ncomms15291. (4) This paper reports the superior catalytic performance of Pt nanoparticles assembled on vacancy-abundant BNNSs by embracing an interfacial electronic effect on Pt induced by the nanosheets with N vacancies and B vacancies.
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Two-dimensional (2D) layered material-derived nanocatalysts are an emerging class of nanostructures being recognized as promising candidates in catalysis applications, including but not limited to hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), (14) graphene, (5,6) carbon nitride (C3N4), transition-metal dichalcogenides (TMDs), layered metal oxides, and layered double hydroxides (LDHs), by leveraging their unique physiochemical properties (e.g., high surface area-to-volume ratios, superior electric/optical properties, thermal/chemical stability, and the MottSchottky effect). (7,8) Along with the development of graphene-derived nanocatalysts, so-called white graphene, 2D h-BN, has been an attractive research spot because of its exceptional features regarding thermal/chemical stability and the ability to modify the electronic response through molecular-scale engineering. (9) It is one of the typical group III nitrides with a graphite-like layered structure in its bulk phase. In each layer, alternating boron and nitrogen atoms are connected by covalent bonds and arranged in a hexagonal form with a space group of P63/mmc, which then stack together by the van der Waals force interaction. (10,11) Although its synthesis dates back to 1842, (12) this ultrastable and inert material was mainly deployed as a thermally stable engineering ceramic and substrate for graphene in nanoelectronic and optoelectronic devices in the initial stages. Since the pioneering work of Hermans et al. using BN nanomaterials for catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) in 2016, it has been gradually explored as a rising star in catalysis. (13)
In h-BN-derived nanocatalysts, boron or nitrogen sites with unsaturated coordination that form at the edge position or within the defects could directly act as the active sites to promote the reaction or provide the surrounding environment to tune the electronic properties of the active metal center (e.g., supported metal nanoparticles (NPs) or single atoms (SAs)) toward enhanced catalytic activity. (1418) Under either circumstance, the electronic and structural properties of h-BN play critical roles, which could be modulated by the number of 2D layers, (19) defect types and ratios, (4) crystallinity, (3) surface functionalization, (20) and heteroelemental doping. (21,22) Therefore, the development of facile and controllable construction and modification approaches is a prerequisite to accessing the precise tuning over the h-BN scaffolds, which will, in turn, become powerful platforms for generating heterogeneous catalysts with promising catalytic performance. In addition, a fundamental and systematic understanding of the correlation between specific structural and compositional parameters and the catalytic behavior variation, particularly the charge transfer and interfacial phenomena in h-BN-supported metal catalysts, will provide untapped opportunities in catalyst design and resolve challenging issues in catalysis by customizing the h-BN scaffolds.
In this Account, the recent progress related to the nanostructural engineering of h-BN-based nanocatalysts via gas exfoliation, in situ and postcrystallinity control, vacancy creation, and strong metalsupport interaction (SMSI) construction will be highlighted. The catalytic behavior of the afforded nanomaterials as metal-free catalysts or as supports/overlayers in metal-species-involved catalysts for diverse oxidation and hydrogenation reactions and the structure/property/performance relationship will be elucidated. These will be organized into three topics (Figure 1): (1) targeted synthesis, in which we discuss the state-of-art methodologies for h-BN fabrication, focusing on those suitable for large-scale application in catalysis and capable of engineering the nanostructures (e.g., defects, crystallinity, edge functionalities, and heteroatom doping); (2) tuning the catalytic performance, in which we discuss their applications in dehydrogenation, hydrogenation, and oxidation reactions as metal-free catalysts; and (3) modulating the electronic properties of metal NPs, in which we discuss the fabrication of metal nanocatalysts with an h-BN support and the interfacial property modulation on metal NPs and h-BN-based SMSI construction toward enhanced catalysis in high-temperature gas-phase reactions. Together, these capabilities provide new opportunities for predicting and rationally designing h-BN-based nanocatalysts with targeted properties and promising applications in catalysis.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Schematic depiction on the targeted synthesis of h-BN-derived nanomaterials toward enhanced catalysis by providing active sites or acting as supports for metal species modulation.
2. Targeted Synthesis
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The construction of high-quality h-BN scaffolds with controllable properties will be the premise for achieving fine tuning of the catalytic behavior and a fundamental understanding of the structure/performance relationship. For 2D nanomaterials being deployed as catalysts, supports, or additives including h-BN scaffolds and beyond, synthesis approaches capable of affording the corresponding nanomaterials with large tuning capabilities in defect types, vacancy ratios, crystallinity, textural properties, morphologies, and chemical structures are highly desirable yet challenging. The successful fabrication of single- or few-layered graphene via the mechanical exfoliation of graphite by Novoselov et al. in 2004 has triggered broad interests in exploring diverse exfoliation approaches to form ultrathin 2D nanomaterials. (23,24) Mechanical exfoliation could provide h-BN nanosheets (h-BNNSs) with improved crystallinity but faces the issues of small flake size and inferior yield. (25) Chemical exfoliation in the presence of organic solvents or alkaline metal hydroxides could yield relatively large quantities of few-layered h-BNNSs, but the flake sizes were still inferior, accompanied by surface contamination introduced by the solvents/additives. (26) A straightforward approach to growing h-BN films was via chemical vapor deposition (CVD) on specific substrates, (27) providing high-quality h-BN films with precise structural control. However, the production scale was highly limited by the tedious procedure and utilization of rare, unstable, pyrophoric, or toxic precursors (e.g., ammonia, diborane, borazine, and ammonia borane). The generally deployed large-scale h-BN fabrication in catalysis mainly relies on the thermal treatment of boron- and nitrogen-containing precursor mixtures (e.g., boron trioxide, boric acid, melamine, guanidine hydrochloride, and urea), which could produce h-BN with a relatively high surface area. (28,29) However, residual oxygen and carbon moieties from the starting materials were involved, leading to h-BN with unsatisfactory purity and crystallinity. Based on these as-developed approaches toward h-BN production and the existing issues, the following targeted synthesis strategies have been pursued to generate h-BN nanomaterials for enhanced catalysis applications: (1) liquid N2 gas-assisted exfoliation; (2) magnesium metallic flux-promoted crystallization; and (3) direct ionothermal treatment of inorganic molten salts.
Aiming at the rapid and large-scale fabrication of few-layered h-BNs, a controlled gas exfoliation approach was developed that combined the expansion triggered by high-temperature treatment at 800 C under air and liquid N2 (196 C)-assisted exfoliation via rapid gasification (Figure 2A). (19) Repeated curling/delamination at high temperature and N2 penetration into the h-BN interlayers led to the formation of few-layered h-BNNS (BNNS-10 denoted as the product being obtained after repeating 10 times). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images of the as-obtained BNNS-10 displayed an ultrathin and flat nanosheet-like architecture (Figure 2B). Atomic force microscopy (AFM) and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) images revealed that the thickness of the as-obtained h-BNNS was less than 3 nm when composed of one to five layers of h-BNs, as the thickness of a single-layer h-BN was 0.4 to 0.5 nm. The expansion in BNNS-10 was demonstrated by the X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) patterns, in which the (002) peaks shifted from 2θ = 26.82 in the bulk h-BN precursor to 26.70 in BNNS-10, corresponding to an expanded interplanar distance changing from 3.3 to 3.4 Å (Figure 2C). In addition, the intensity of all of the diffraction peaks was diminished in BNNS-10, being derived from the ultrathin nanosheets with inferior extended stacking (c direction). In the Raman spectra, a blue shift of the G band from 1365.8 cm1 in the bulk h-BN to 1366.8 cm1 in BNNS-10 was observed, together with a broadened full width at half-maximum (FWHM) from 16.3 to 16.7 cm1. These were caused by the increased in-plane strain and diminished interlayer interaction after exfoliation. The as-afforded BNNS-10 had a much higher surface area (278 m2 g1), as detected by N2 isotherms (77 K), compared with the h-BN precursor (10 m2 g1). Chemical structure characterizations of BNNS-10 by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES), and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) verified the well-preserved h-BN units, benefiting from the ultrahigh stability of h-BN in the repeated high- and low-temperature treatment. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicated that at high temperature (e.g., 800 C) the interaction energy of two adjacent h-BN layers significantly decreased from 10.6 (at 25 C) to 6.4 kcal mol1. The weakened interaction was preferred in the subsequent gas-triggered exfoliation. Notably, besides the improved surface area and ultrathin features of the h-BNNS being achieved by gas exfoliation, abundant defects were created, which delivered a promising performance in tuning the interfacial electronic properties of the supported metal NPs toward enhanced catalysis. (4)
Figure 2
Figure 2. (A) Thermal-expansion-triggered gas exfoliation of h-BN. (B) Characterization of the as-produced BNNS-10 after exfoliation: SEM image (upper left), TEM image (upper right), AFM image with the number of layers (L) across the line (left lower), and STEM image (lower right). (C) Structure comparison of the commercial BN precursor and BNNS-10: from top to bottom, amplified XRD patterns, Raman spectra, and N2 isotherms (77 K). Reproduced from ref (19). Copyright 2016, Wiley-VCH.
Research efforts have been made on the transformation of amorphous h-BN scaffolds to the counterparts with improved crystallinity and purity. (3) It was reported that metal species could assist the graphitization of carbon materials and lower the required heating temperatures. (30,31) Magnesium was selected as the solvent/catalyst to crystallize the amorphous h-BN precursor (Figure 3A) considering its moderate melting point (650 C) and promising performance in the fabrication of highly crystalline graphite. (31) The amorphous h-BN precursor was prepared from the calcination of boric acid and urea and was treated under a nitrogen atmosphere in the presence of Mg powder at 900 C. (3) The XRD pattern of the as-afforded h-BNNS product after washing demonstrated its highly crystalline features with ordered/extended stacking in the c direction, which exhibited characteristic signals of a typical hexagonal phase with the peak at 2θ = 26.41 being assigned to the (002) crystal plane, corresponding to an interplanar distance of 3.5 Å, together with other minor peaks. A comparison of the SEM and TEM images obviously displayed the morphology variation (Figure 3B,C). In the h-BN precursor, big blocks with thick (>3.5 μm) and randomly packed h-BN layers were observed. Comparatively, the crystalline h-BNNS product was composed of petaloid flakes with a lateral size of 200 nm and a thickness of 12.9 nm. The lattice fringes were clearly shown with a spacing of 0.35 nm, which was consistent with the value being calculated from the position of the (002) crystal plane in the XRD pattern. In the as-produced crystalline h-BNNS, each sheet was composed of 1520 atomic layers. FTIR and XPS demonstrated that carbon- and oxygen-containing impurities existed in the bulk h-BN precursor, but after the Mg-assisted crystallization treatment, only signals related to the BN bonds were displayed. Correspondingly, magic angle spinning (MAS) 11B solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy of the h-BN precursor displayed the featured peak for BO3 at 0.72 ppm, while the crystalline h-BNNS exhibited only the characteristic peaks for the BN3 units at 10.2 and 26.1 ppm. After the crystallization treatment, the thermal stability of h-BN was also enhanced from the thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) results. The textural analysis by N2 isotherms (77 K) of h-BNNS revealed that it had a surface area of 347 m2 g1 originating from both micro- and mesopores with a total pore volume of 0.41 m3 g1. Notably, the as-afforded crystalline h-BNNS displayed improved catalytic performance in dehydrogenation reactions compared to the amorphous precursor and the commercial counterparts.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (A) Mg-promoted transformation of amorphous h-BN to crystalline and purified h-BNNSs and the corresponding PXRD patterns. SEM and TEM images of (B) the h-BN precursor and (C) the obtained crystalline h-BNNS. Reproduced from ref (3). Copyright 2019, Wiley-VCH.
Besides the post-treatment methods, it is highly desired to develop facile approaches capable of affording high-quality h-BN scaffolds without recrystallization and purification. To this end, an ionothermal pathway was developed to produce h-BN using carbon- and oxygen-free starting materials. (32) Thermal treatment of inorganic salt mixtures composed of NaBH4 and NaNH2 under a nitrogen atmosphere at 850 C could afford a large-scale (5 g in one batch) h-BN scaffold (yield: 85%) after removing the residual sodium species by washing (Figure 4A). The XRD pattern of the as-produced h-BN exhibited strong (002) crystal plane diffraction (2θ = 26.31), indicating an interplanar distance of 3.5 Å and high crystallinity together with other minor peaks being assigned to (100) and (101) planes (Figure 4B). The G band in the Raman spectra of the obtained h-BN was upshifted to 1369.8 cm1 compared with the commercial h-BN (1364 cm1) owing to the reduced thickness (Figure 4C). Solid-state 11B NMR demonstrated the high purity of the h-BN scaffolds, with two characteristic peaks at 10.2 and 25.7 ppm for the BN3 units and a minor shoulder for the BH bond (2.2 ppm) (Figure 4D). XPS analysis and FTIR spectra further revealed the high purity and complete removal of the Na-involved species. The as-prepared h-BN was composed of sheet-like structure with clear lattice fringes in the TEM image (Figure 4E). Notably, a simple feeding ratio variation could generate h-BN nanomaterials with diverse defect structures to tune the catalytic activity in H2 activation and dissociation.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (A) Synthesis of high-quality h-BN scaffolds via the ionothermal treatment of the NaNH2 and NaBH4 mixture. Characterizations of the as-prepared h-BN: (B) PXRD pattern, (C) Raman spectrum, (D) solid-state 11B NMR spectrum; and (E) TEM image. Reproduced from ref (32). Copyright 2019, Wiley-VCH.
3. Tuning the Catalytic Performance
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The exploration of h-BN-derived nanomaterials in catalysis was pioneered by Hermans et al. to promote the ODH of propane to propene. (13) The propane conversion and propene selectivity were greatly affected by the local structure of the h-BN nanocatalysts, in which the in situ-formed oxidized B species (e.g., BO, BOH, and B(OH)xO3x) were recognized as the active sites. (33,34) For example, h-BN being obtained by plasma treatment under a nitrogen atmosphere could achieve a propane conversion of 26% and an olefin selectivity of 89.4% at 520 C benefiting from the N-defect creation. (35) The h-BN obtained by the liquid N2-assisted exfoliation was utilized in the ODH of propane after being treated under the reaction feeding gas flow at 500 C, and the as-afforded catalyst was denoted as BN-T. (34) Although porosity and morphology exhibited no significant variations after the pretreatment under the propane/O2/He atmosphere, FTIR and XPS spectral comparison revealed the introduction of BO and BOH moieties within the h-BN skeletons under the ODH reaction conditions. Notably, BN-T derived from the gas-exfoliated precursor achieved a propane conversion of 43%, which is almost 4 times higher than that obtained by the commercial h-BN precursor, together with 75% alkene (C2 and C3) selectivity and long-term stability (Figure 5A). (34) The formation of gaseous methyl radicals (·CH3) during the reaction procedure was detected by online synchrotron vacuum ultraviolet photoionization mass spectroscopy (SVUV-PIMS) (Figure 5B), (34) and in combination with theoretical calculations, it was proposed that the propane-to-propene conversion was generated on the activated h-BN surface in which the CH bond in propane and the O2 molecule were activated by the BO species in the BO3 units, resulting in weakly bonded BHO2 and BC3H7. Then propene was formed with simultaneous H2O2 release.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (A) Catalytic performance of BN-T-high in ODH of propane at different temperatures (reaction conditions: 100 mg of catalyst; gas feed 2.5 vol % C3H8, 2.5 vol % O2, and He balance; flow rate 30 mLmin1). (B) SVUV-PIMS spectra of gas-phase components in the ODH of the propane reaction catalyzed by BN-T-high at 600 C, obtained with a photon energy of 10.0 eV. Reproduced from ref (34). Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH. (C) Synthesis of P-BNs with abundant N-terminated defects in the presence of a zinc additive. (D) Catalytic performance of different h-BN materials in the aerobic oxidation of DBT. Reproduced from ref (29). Copyright 2016, Royal Society of Chemistry. (E) Catalytic comparison of the h-BNNS obtained via Mg-assisted crystallization with other catalysts in the dehydrogenation reaction. Reproduced from ref (3). Copyright 2019, Wiley-VCH.
By leveraging the O2 activation capability of h-BN nanocatalysts, they were utilized in the aerobic oxidation desulfurization. (29) For example, the surface area of the h-BN materials being synthesized from boric acid and urea could be improved and tuned by using different solvent mixtures (e.g., methanol and water) in the precursor assembly stage, which then in turn could influence their catalytic activities in the aerobic oxidation of dibenzothiophene (DBT) to DBTO2. (29) The terminated edge of the h-BN materials could be tailored by adding extra zinc salts as a template and directing agent to create N-terminated defect edges (Figure 5C). (29) The zinc species could be removed in situ during the high-temperature treatment of boric acid and urea via volatilization. P-BN-6, which was obtained in a molar ratio of 1:24:0.6 (boric acid/urea/Zn(Ac)2·2H2O) in the starting material, exhibited the best catalytic performance in the aerobic oxidation of DBT (Figure 5D). (29)
Dehydrogenation reactions played a critical role in hydrogen storage involving liquid organic hydrogen carriers. (3) The h-BNNS products that were obtained via the Mg-assisted crystallization procedure displayed attractive performance in the dehydrogenation of dodecahydro-N-ethylcarbazole (12H-NEC) to generate the unsaturated product N-ethylcarbazole (NEC) upon H2 release with 74% yield at 120 C, which surpassed the catalytic efficiency obtained by the amorphous precursor, commercial h-BN, as well as the Pd/C catalyst (Figure 5E). (3)
Metal-free hydrogenations catalyzed by frustrated Lewis pairs (FLPs) have attracted extensive studies since the pioneering work of Stephan et al. (36) The key active sites within the nanocatalysts are sterically hindered Lewis acid (e.g., B or Al in group 13) and Lewis base sites (e.g., N or P in group 15). Compared with the homogeneous FLP systems, the heterogeneous counterparts are still in the preliminary stage based on the initial endeavor toward H2 activation by semiheterogeneous systems in which Au powder (37) and oxygen species in molecular sieves (38)/nitrogen species in porous organic networks (39) were deployed as the hindered acidic or basic site, respectively. FLP behaviors in heterogeneous nanomaterials, including In2O3x(OH)y, (40) ceria nanorods, (41) heteroatom-doped graphene, (42) and carbon materials, (43) have been explored. Considering that h-BN was composed of alternatively linked B and N atoms, it is possible to create active acidic (unsaturated B) and basic (unsaturated N) sites within the scaffolds by precision structural control. The ionothermal synthesis approach with NaBH4 and NaNH2 as the starting materials provided a promising pathway toward defect creation by simple feeding ratio control over the B or N source. (32) In addition, the nanoporous and highly crystalline features could facilitate H2 activation and the subsequent hydrogenation procedure. With the feeding ratio of NaBH4/NaNH2 varying from 1:1 to 1:9, highly crystalline and porous h-BN-n (n = 15) nanomaterials could be produced with high purity, as revealed by the XRD, FTIR, and solid-state 11B NMR spectra (Figure 6A). (1) Near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure (NEXAFS) verified the successful defect introduction within the scaffolds with the defect ratio decreased in the order of h-BN-1 > h-BN-4 > h-BN-5 (Figure 6B). Pair distribution function (PDF) analysis revealed the unique feature of h-BN-4 with possible BN2-type vacancy formation (Figure 6C). The H2 activation and dissociation capability of h-BN-4 was demonstrated by the H/D isotope scrambling test via 1H NMR in d12-cyclohexane, in which the formation of HD from the H2 and D2 mixture was detected (Figure 6D). The H2 diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) displayed the in situ formation of BH and NH species within the h-BN-4 scaffolds, which could be further transformed to HD by introducing D2 into the gas stream. Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) profiles using NH3 and CO2 as the probe molecules demonstrated the existence of Lewis acid and base species, respectively, in some of the h-BN nanocatalysts, particularly in h-BN-4, which delivered promising catalytic efficiency in the styrene hydrogenation under ambient H2 pressure, together with good cycling stability within five cycles (Figure 6E). Theoretical calculations revealed that the H2 activation capability of h-BNs was controlled by the defective structure, and the medium-sized BN2 vacancy delivered the optimum catalytic activity with reasonable activation energies in the complete styrene hydrogenation pathway.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (A) Schematic illustration of the defect creation in the h-BN lattice toward H2 activation and dissociation. (B) B K-edge NEXAFS spectra (left) and PDF analysis (right). (C) H/D exchange detected by 1H NMR (d12-cyclohexane, 400 MHz) at 100 C and 1 bar H2/D2 (1:1) catalyzed by h-BN-4 (left). In situ DRIFTS spectra of H2 chemisorption on h-BN-4 (middle). Mass fragments of the outlet gas stream derived from H2/D2 chemisorption on h-BN-4 (right). (D) NH3-TPD and CO2-TPD profiles. (E) Catalytic activity of h-BNs in styrene hydrogenation. Reproduced from ref (1). Copyright 2022, American Chemical Society.
4. Modulating the Electronic Properties of Metal Nanoparticles
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Supported metal NP-derived catalysts have demonstrated widespread applications in industrial catalysis (e.g., CO oxidation, hydrogenation, hydrocracking, dehydrogenation, and so on (44,45)). Accordingly, diverse methodologies have been developed to embrace the interfacial electronic properties of metal NPs toward enhanced catalytic activity and improved stability, (46,47) among which interfacial electronic modulation by deploying a redox-active support (e.g., TiO2, CeO2, and FeOx) has been widely explored while supports with nonredox activity (e.g., SiO2 and C) had no tuning capability. It was envisaged that defect creation in the h-BN scaffolds could introduce electron-rich nitrogen sites and electron-deficient boron sites capable of embracing the interfacial electronic properties of metal NPs. The few layered h-BNNS being obtained via the gas-exfoliation procedure was utilized as a support to load Pt NPs (1.18 wt %) by leveraging its relatively high surface area and abundant defects with N-terminated (BV) or B-terminated (NV) edges. (4)
Bright-field TEM and STEM images of the as-prepared Pt/h-BNNS revealed that cubic Pt NPs with a size of 5  0.5 nm were mainly distributed on the edge positions of the h-BNNS support (Figure 7A). The presence of abundant NV and BV defects were verified by the high-resolution STEM image (Figure 7A). Electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) analysis indicated that the Pt NPs were prone to be embedded on the B-terminated NV region instead of the BV regions. CO oxidation was then deployed as a probe reaction to evaluate the catalytic activity of Pt/h-BNNS. The results demonstrated that quantitative CO conversion was achieved at 67 C catalyzed by Pt/h-BNNS (Figure 7B), while higher temperatures (104156 C) were required to obtain full CO conversion using Pt NPs supported on bulk h-BN, SiO2, or acetylene black. Notably, the as-calculated apparent activation energy (Ea) of Pt/h-BNNS was 38.0 kJ mol1, which was much lower than that of inert SiO2-supported Pt NPs (49.3 kJ mol1) (Figure 7B). The long-term stability of Pt/h-BNNS was further verified by the time-on-stream test over continuous running within 50 h. A theoretical DFT calculation was performed to provide insights into the interface impact, in which the cluster binding energy (BE) of Pt decreased from 2.00 eV (with the pristine h-BN support) to 7.22 eV (with h-BNNS containing NV) and 7.77 eV (with h-BNNS containing BV), indicating the formation of PtB and PtN bonds in the latter case (Figure 7C). An interfacial charge transfer was demonstrated from h-BNNS to Pt in NV sites and from Pt to h-BNNS in BV sites. The catalytic activity improvement of Pt/h-BNNS was caused by the electronic interaction of Pt NPs with the defects in h-BNNS, leading to facilitated O2 adsorption and activation to enhance the CO oxidation. CO DRIFTS adsorption displayed red-shifted linear CO adsorption on Pt/h-BNNS compared with that obtained by Pt/SiO2, further illustrating the more negatively charged property of Pt NPs on h-BNNS. The achievements made in this work provide a way to construct stable and active supported metal NP catalysts by leveraging the defects in h-BN scaffolds. DFT calculations showed that the defects in h-BN can stabilize the Pt single atom for propane dehydrogenation. (48)
Figure 7
Figure 7. (A) TEM (top) and STEM (middle) of Pt/h-BNNS and high-resolution STEM (bottom) of h-BNNS with defects. (B) CO oxidation light-off curves for different catalysts (left) and the apparent activation energy of Pt/h-BNNS and Pt/SiO2 (right). (C) Optimized structures and valence electrons of the pyramidal Pt4 cluster on vacancy-free h-BNNS (left), h-BNNS with NV (middle), and h-BNNS with BV (right). Reproduced with permission from ref (4). Copyright 2017, the authors. Published by Springer Nature with a Creative Commons CC BY 4.0 License.
Regarding the ubiquitous application of supported metal NPs in heterogeneous catalysis, extensive studies have been focused on the stability enhancement during the long-term procedures to avoid deactivation caused by metal sintering or impurity adsorption. (49) Besides the as-stated supports premodification, the confinement effect within the channels or pores (e.g., in zeolites or silica) could to some extent protect the metal NPs from sintering but could not suppress the Ostwald ripening and Brownian-like motion behavior of metal NPs. (50,51) SMSI construction represents a promising approach to affording supported metal NPs with satisfactory stability by introducing oxide overlayers to encapsulate the metal NPs. (5254) Preliminary studies have been focused on metal NPs supported on reducible metal oxides (e.g., TiO2, CeO2, and V2O3) via thermal treatment under an H2 atmosphere, (55) which were then extended to hydroxyapatite, phosphates, and ZnO via thermal treatment under an O2 atmosphere. (56) However, the dense phase texture of the as-formed overlayers and their reversible nature under redox opposite reaction conditions have limitations in practical catalysis application. The metal-free nature, high thermal/chemical stability, nanoporous structure, and capability of modulating the interfacial electronic property of metal NPs being possessed by h-BN scaffolds envisaged us to explore the possibility to construct h-BN-derived SMSI in a supported metal NP catalyst. (14)
By leveraging the facile ionothermal procedure in h-BN construction using inorganic salt mixtures, (32) an in situ SMSI construction approach was developed with NaNH2, NaBH4, and PdCl2 as the starting materials via a facile thermal treatment procedure, which enabled the formation of h-BN skeletons, the reduction of Pd2+ to its metallic form, and h-BN overlayer introduction (Figure 8A). (2) HR-TEM and high-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscope (HAADF-STEM) images verified that in the as-formed Pd/h-BN-SMSI skeletons, Pd NPs (particle size of 5.8  0.7 nm) were uniformly distributed within the h-BN scaffolds, which consisted of encapsulation by h-BN layers with a thickness of about 2.5 nm (Figure 8B). FTIR and XPS analysis demonstrated the formation of h-BN structures and Pd NPs, and the higher binding energy of Pd 3d peaks in Pd/h-BN-SMSI compared to those in pristine Pd NPs demonstrated the strong interfacial interaction between the h-BN supports and the Pd NPs. PXRD revealed the highly crystalline h-BN scaffolds with periodic architecture and an interplanar distance of 3.6 Å, together with the characteristic (111) crystal plane of Pd NPs (2θ = 39.90) corresponding to an interplanar distance of 2.2 Å (Figure 8C). CO DRIFTS measurement verified the formation of h-BN overlayers on the Pd NPs, with only linear-type CO adsorption (2046 cm1) being observed as well as the restricted CO chemisorption behavior, while the Pd/h-BN being synthesized via the postloading procedure exhibited both linear and bridge-type CO adsorption signals. In addition, the facile in situ encapsulation approach via the ionothermal treatment of inorganic molten salts could be extended to introduce SMSI on other nanocatalysts with composite supports composed of h-BN and γ-Al2O3, zeolite, or SiO2, and the noble metal NPs could be extended to Au, Pt, and Pd, in which the successful h-BN overlayer formation was demonstrated by PXRD, TEM, STEM, and elemental mapping.
Figure 8
Figure 8. (A) Schematic illustration of the SMSI construction involving h-BN overlayer formation via the ionothermal approach. (B) HR-TEM (left and middle) and HAADF-STEM (right) images of the as-prepared Pd/h-BN-SMSI. (C) PXRD pattern of Pd/h-BN-SMSI (left), light-off curves of the Pd/h-BN-SMSI catalyst in CO oxidation under simulated practical conditions (middle), and a catalytic stability test in the presence of H2O and propene (right). Reproduced from ref (2). Copyright 2020, American Chemical Society.
CO oxidation was deployed as a probe reaction to demonstrate the advantage of SMSI introduction, particularly with inert, robust, and nanoporous h-BN overlayers. (5759) Using Pd/h-BN-SMSI as the catalyst, 50% and complete CO conversion were achieved at 187 and 235 C, respectively (Figure 8C). Notably, during the long-term stability test in the presence of impurities, Pd/h-BN-SMSI exhibited good resistance to O2, moisture, and hydrocarbon poison, with stable catalytic activity being maintained within 50 h. (5759)
The formation of boron oxide (BOx) as the overlayers in SMSI construction on the h-BN-supported metal NPs (e.g., Ni) was demonstrated via a reaction-induced procedure in methane dry reforming (CH4 + CO2  2CO + 2H2). (54) Control experiments being performed via the temperature-programmed reaction under different atmospheres in the presence of Ni-h-BN, together with XPS analysis and microscopy, revealed that the BOx overlayer was introduced via the oxidative etching of the h-BN skeletons under a CO2/H2O atmosphere assisted by Ni NPs during the methane dry reforming procedure. Notably, the BOx encapsulation could promote the catalytic activity of Ni/h-BN because the low melting point of BOx and abundant defects and pores in the overlayers still allowed the penetration of gas molecules at elevated reaction temperatures while simultaneously suppressing the deactivation of Ni species caused by sintering or coking. Theoretical calculations further revealed that the as-formed BO(H) intermediates could work synergistically with the Ni sites to promote methane dry reforming in the CO2 adsorption/insertion and the CHxOH formation steps. The high-temperature-reaction-induced SMSI construction approach was also applicable to other metal NPs including Ru, Fe, Co, and Pt by forming BOx overlayers. (60)
5. Conclusions and Outlook
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The 2D h-BN-derived materials have emerged as a promising category of nanocatalysts in heterogeneous catalysis possessing unique features of layered nanosheet morphology, permanent porosity, promising stability resistance to thermal heating under a reductive/oxidative atmosphere, controllable defect creation, the capability to modulate the interfacial electronic properties of metal species, and so on. Herein, the achievements that have been made by our group related to the development of h-BN-derived nanocatalysts toward enhanced catalysis are summarized. Controllable h-BN synthesis was achieved through the following efforts: a gas-assisted exfoliation method affording h-BNs with a thin layer, improved surface area, and abundant defects from the commercial h-BN precursor; a recrystallization approach in the presence of magnesium flux producing h-BN with improved crystallinity and purity from the bulk h-BN precursor from boric acid and urea; and the ionothermal treatment of inorganic molten salts forming h-BN scaffolds with high quality on a large scale. By leveraging the as-developed modification and construction pathways, the tunable catalytic performance of the h-BN-derived materials as metal-free nanocatalysts was demonstrated in the ODH of propane, oxidative desulfurization, and hydrogenation reactions. Extensive studies have been conducted to explore the capability of h-BN as a carrier to modulate the charge flow on the supported metal NPs and as overlayers to enhance the stability of metal NPs via SMSI construction toward enhanced catalysis in CO oxidation under simulated practical exhaust systems. Those achievements provide guidance and strong support for us to further explore the opportunities in developing customized boron nitride-derived nanomaterials toward enhanced catalytic performance under the present reaction procedures and beyond. Some of the potential efforts toward new frontiers include the following:
The h-BN-based heterostructures have been successfully constructed via the ionothermal approach with mesoporous carbons or carbon nanotubes, which has delivered promising performance in energy storage (32) and recently in electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction. (61) The composition diversity of the h-BN-based heterostructures will provide tremendous opportunities to engineer the electronic properties and active sites toward enhanced catalysis. (62)
The electronic properties of h-BNs can be regulated via doping with other elements possessing similar atomic size and electronegativity different from that of B (ca. 2.05) and N (ca. 3.5), which will lead to the localization of π electrons on specific atoms and 2D materials with diverse electronic properties. (63) Boron carbon nitrides (BCNs) represent the most explored category displaying tunable catalytic activity in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), (64) hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), (65) photocatalysis, (66) and so on. The benefits by doping transition-metal species within the h-BN lattice in H2 activation have been studied by theoretical calculations, but there is still a lack of efficient strategies for the material synthesis with controllable structure engineering as well as the catalysis applications. The fundamental understanding of the structurepropertyactivity relationship in the heteroatom-doped h-BN-catalyzed processes will provide an atomistic understanding of the material design and modification in specific catalytic applications.
Most of the current boron nitride-derived nanocatalysts are focused on the hexagonal crystal pattern, with the cubic boron nitride (c-BN) as an underexplored category in both catalysis and other fields. (67) This is mainly caused by the limited synthesis procedure in which harsh conditions (high temperature and high pressure) are required. (68) However, the ultrastable property of c-BN and the phase transformation between h-BN and c-BN under specific conditions will provide extra opportunities to construct defect-abundant stable nanocatalysts under harsh conditions involving gas-phase catalytic transformations. (69)
Single-atom catalysts (SACs) with the unique properties of atom economy and active-site homogeneity have demonstrated unparalleled merit with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity in heterogeneous catalysis compared to their metal NP counterparts. (44,45) However, state-of-the-art h-BN-derived nanocatalysts are still limited to the metal NPs. The strong interaction of the BV and NV defects with the metal species (4) provides great potential to form stabilized SACs within the modified h-BN lattice for enhanced catalysis.
Although h-BN-derived nanocatalysts have displayed promising cycling stability, the detailed chemical/textural structure evolution of the h-BN scaffolds in the presence of water, particularly under high thermal heating reaction conditions, has been less explored. Decomposition of the B3N3 units via the formation of BOH moieties which has been illustrated in the methane combustion procedures (70) is one of the potential side effects leading to diminished stability. Manipulation of the hydrophobic/hydrophilic properties of the h-BN scaffolds via surface modification (e.g., introducing fluorine moieties) is one of the potential approaches to affording water-resistant counterparts to be deployed in catalytic conversion involving water formation (e.g., oxidative dehydrogenation and the reverse watergas shift (RWGS) reaction).
While the current achievements have illustrated the unique features of h-BN-derived nanocatalysts, more efforts are expected to further enhance their catalytic performance as metal-free nanocatalysts, as a component in heterostructures, or as carriers in metal-species-involved catalysts. This will in turn rely on the development of facile synthesis methodology to finely tune the chemical structure, defect types and ratios, porosity, crystallinity, nanosheet thickness, and so on. Determining the detailed structural evolution of the h-BN carriers and the active metal sites during the reaction procedure via diverse characterizations and catalytic kinetic studies plays critical roles in the discovery of neotype structure models and advanced nanocatalysts, assisted by the corresponding theoretical calculations. Altogether, the cohesive efforts will further extend the capability of boron nitride nanomaterials in the discovery and development of promising catalytic systems in practical industrial applications.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Authors
Zhenzhen Yang - Chemical Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, United States;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0233-4747;  Email: yangz3@ornl.gov
Sheng Dai - Department of Chemistry, Institute for Advanced Materials and Manufacturing, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, United States;  Chemical Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, United States;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8046-3931;  Email: dais@ornl.gov
Authors
Hao Chen - Department of Chemistry, Institute for Advanced Materials and Manufacturing, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, United States;  College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha 410082, P. R. China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6658-4198
De-en Jiang - Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37235, United States;  https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5167-0731
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Biographies
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Hao Chen
Hao Chen obtained his Ph.D. in chemical technology from Tianjin University in 2016. Then he worked on the hierarchical zeolite fabrication for biomass conversion at Zhejiang University. In 2017, he moved to the University of Tennessee, Knoxville as a postdoctoral researcher working on the design and synthesis of high-entropy metal oxides and BN-related materials and their catalytic applications.
De-en Jiang
De-en Jiang is a professor in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Vanderbilt University since July 2022. Before that, he was a professor of chemistry at the University of California, Riverside (UCR) as well as a cooperating faculty member in Chemical & Environmental Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering. He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from Peking University and his Ph.D. degree in chemistry from UCLA. He worked at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) first as a postdoctoral researcher and then as a staff scientist before joining UCR in 2014. His group moved from UCR to Vanderbilt in July 2022. His research focuses on computational chemical sciences and materials for energy and the environment.
Zhenzhen Yang
Zhenzhen Yang earned her Ph.D. in organic chemistry from Nankai University in 2013. Then she worked at the Institute of Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences for five years (2013-2018). Afterwards, she worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville (2018-2020) and currently works as an R&D associate staff member in the Chemical Sciences Division of ORNL. Her research is mainly focused on developing functionalized nanomaterials for the efficient adsorption/separation, activation, and transformation of small gas molecules.
Sheng Dai
Sheng Dai is currently a corporate fellow and section head overseeing four research groups in the areas of separations and polymer chemistry at Chemical Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory and a Professor of Chemistry at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. His current research interests include ionic liquids, porous materials, and their applications for separation sciences and energy storage as well as catalysis by nanomaterials. He is a Fellow of Material Research Society and Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 