<DOCUMENT>
A novel reverse flow reactor coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions: Part II: Sequential reactor configuration for reversible endothermic reactions
Abstract
The new reactor concept for highly endothermic reactions at elevated temperatures with possible rapid catalyst deactivation based on the indirect coupling of endothermic and exothermic reactions in reverse flow, developed for irreversible reactions in Part I, has been extended to reversible endothermic reactions for the sequential reactor configuration. In the sequential reactor configuration, the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed discontinuously and sequentially to the same catalyst bed, which acts as an energy repository delivering energy during the endothermic reaction phase and storing energy during the consecutive exothermic reaction phase. The periodic flow reversals to incorporate recuperative heat exchange result in low temperatures at both reactor ends, while high temperatures prevail in the centre of the reactor. For reversible endothermic reactions, these low exit temperatures can shift the equilibrium back towards the reactants side, causing ‘back-conversion’ at the reactor outlet.
The extent of back-conversion is investigated for the propane dehydrogenation/methane combustion reaction system, considering a worst case scenario for the kinetics by assuming that the propylene hydrogenation reaction rate at low temperatures is only limited by mass transfer. It is shown for this reaction system that full equilibrium conversion of the endothermic reactants cannot be combined with recuperative heat exchange, if the reactor is filled entirely with active catalyst. Inactive sections installed at the reactor ends can reduce this back-conversion, but cannot completely prevent it. Furthermore, undesired high temperature peaks can be formed at the transition point between the inactive and active sections, exceeding the maximum allowable temperature (at least for the relatively fast combustion reactions).
A new solution is introduced to achieve both full equilibrium conversion and recuperative heat exchange while simultaneously avoiding too high temperatures, even for the worst case scenario of very fast propylene hydrogenation and fuel combustion reaction rates. The proposed solution utilises the movement of the temperature fronts in the sequential reactor configuration and employs less active sections installed at either end of the active catalyst bed and completely inactive sections at the reactor ends, whereas propane combustion is used for energy supply. Finally, it is shown that the plateau temperature can be effectively controlled by simultaneous combustion of propane and methane during the exothermic reaction phase.
1. Introduction
A new reactor concept for highly endothermic reactions at elevated temperatures with possible catalyst deactivation is developed based on the indirect coupling of endothermic and exothermic reactions in reverse flow. The indirect coupling of the endothermic and exothermic reactions can be accomplished in two different basic reactor configurations, referred to as the sequential and simultaneous reactor configuration. In the sequential reactor configuration, the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed discontinuously and sequentially to the same catalyst bed, as opposed to the simultaneous reactor configuration, where the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed continuously and simultaneously to two different compartments exchanging energy through the separating walls. In Part I, it has been discussed for both reactor configurations how the operating conditions of both reaction phases should be set in order to achieve an optimal cyclic steady state. It has been shown that only in the sequential reactor configuration, the inlet concentration can be optimised independent of the gas velocities at maximum throughput and maximum reaction coupling energy efficiency where at the same time control of the maximum temperature can be achieved. In Part I, the reactor concept has been studied for the indirect coupling between the propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion considering both reactions as first order irreversible reactions. However, the propane dehydrogenation is an equilibrium reaction and due to the low exit temperatures resulting from the reverse flow concept, the equilibrium is shifted back towards the reactants side at the reactor outlet. We now extend the theoretical study of the reactor behaviour of the sequential reactor configuration for the propane dehydrogenation/fuel combustion reaction system on a Pt/γ-Al2O3 monolithic catalyst to include thermodynamic equilibrium effects and to discuss possible counteractions to avoid this ‘back-conversion’.
For the unusual case where a catalyst with two different types of active components could be used (and fabricated), where one type of active component catalyses the endothermic reaction and the other the exothermic reaction without any undesired influences of the active components on the other reaction (like side-reactions), back-conversion could simply be prevented by optimising the axial concentration profiles of the active components. However, for this reaction system the platinum-based monolith is a catalyst for both the endothermic dehydrogenation and the fuel combustion.
Although this work focuses on the propane dehydrogenation equilibrium reaction, a general solution to avoid back-conversion is proposed. It is important to study the reactor behaviour of this ‘Reaction Coupling Reverse Flow Reactor’ for reversible reactions, since most industrially interesting endothermic reactions are equilibrium reactions. Moreover, a catalyst for the forward reaction is also a catalyst for the reverse reaction, since the catalyst accelerates the process towards equilibrium from both sides. Hence, back-conversion is a serious problem for all endothermic equilibrium reactions.
Before discussing the simulation results including the thermodynamic propane dehydrogenation equilibrium, some remarks are made on the incorporation of more complex kinetics in the simulation model.
2. Simulation model
The simulation model has been described in detail in Part I. In this part, the gas phase axial momentum balance has been taken into account, anticipating a considerable pressure drop during the fuel combustion reaction phase due to the desired large gas velocities. Furthermore, both heterogeneous and homogeneous reactions have been included in the model. The reaction rate equations are summarised in Table 1, Table 2, Table 3 and are briefly discussed below. The kinetic data for the heterogeneously catalysed reactions are taken from literature and adjusted for a
monolithic catalyst, with properties listed in Table 4, assuming that the platinum dispersion remains independent of the platinum loading. The rate equations are expressed in terms of the external specific catalyst surface area. Dynamic effects caused by sorption or coke formation or coke combustion have been neglected, although it is assumed that periodic catalyst regeneration is a necessity.
Table 1. Propane dehydrogenation and propylene hydrogenation reaction kinetics
4.2
59
  Table 2. Methane combustion reaction kinetics
Heterogeneous reaction rate
rA,MChet=RA,MC,kinhetψPtηovavMA
Homogeneous reaction rate
2.02×109
187
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
1.87×103
86
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
1.13×103
793
1.28×109
830
1.21×103
4.54×10−1
8.3×105
2.96×10−4
125×541
3.91×102
10−3
Table 3. Propane combustion reaction kinetics
Heterogeneous reaction rate
rA,PChet=RA,PC,kinhetψPtηovavMA
Homogeneous reaction rate
1.1×105
71.13
2.7×107
125.54
Table 4. Monolith specification
956×10−6
37×10−6
2917
11×10−6
0.697
89×10−6
1710
0.4
150
4
2.1. Endothermic reaction kinetics
The endothermic reaction kinetics have been extended to incorporate the thermodynamic equilibrium, by assuming that the ratio of the propane dehydrogenation reaction rate constant and the propylene hydrogenation reaction rate constant is equal to the equilibrium constant. The heterogeneous propane dehydrogenation reaction rate is adapted from Loc et al. (1991), however—as in Part I—Langmuir–Hinshelwood-type propylene and hydrogen sorption effects are ignored in order to avoid additional complexities in the interpretation of the results. However, more complex reaction kinetics could easily be implemented in the model. The apparent activation energy for the propane dehydrogenation rate fitted by Loc et al. ca.
) is much lower than the reaction enthalpy of about
. This results in extremely large reaction rates for the propylene hydrogenation at low temperatures, so that the propylene hydrogenation reaction rate becomes limited by mass transfer at low temperatures. Therefore, external mass transfer limitation has been included in the propane dehydrogenation/propylene hydrogenation conversion rate. However, the apparent overall activation energy for the propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures is probably much higher than measured by Loc et al. at 600°C, so that the propylene hydrogenation reaction rates are amply overestimated at low temperatures. With these kinetics a worst case situation with maximum back-conversion is studied.
2.2. Exothermic reaction kinetics
In this work combustion of methane and propane is considered. The heterogeneous methane combustion reaction kinetics have been taken from Trimm and Lam (1980) and slightly adjusted to include an overall temperature dependency. The heterogeneous propane combustion reaction kinetics has been approximated from Hiam, Wise, and Chaikin (1968). It should be noted that the maximum temperatures in the simulations considerably exceed the temperatures for which the reaction rate equations were experimentally derived, especially for the heterogeneous propane combustion reaction rate. Internal and external mass transfer limitations for the heterogeneous combustion reactions are included using an average effectiveness factor. The usually radially non-uniform washcoat thickness distribution is taken into account via an approximate averaging procedure for the effectiveness factor, shortly outlined in Appendix A.
Furthermore, also homogeneous methane and propane combustion reactions are included using simple one-step kinetic rate equations, adapted from Westbrook and Dryer (1981). Due to the overall negative reaction order for methane in the homogeneous methane combustion reaction rate, infinite reaction rates are extrapolated for small methane concentrations. These computational problems have been overcome by adjusting the homogeneous methane combustion reaction rate equation so that for low methane concentrations, the methane reaction order approaches the positive methane reaction order derived for the two-step kinetic model by Dryer and Glassman (1973). It should be realised that the one-step homogeneous combustion models overestimate the overall homogeneous combustion rate for the small fuel concentrations considered in this work.
Finally, it is emphasised here that the kinetic data as described above constitute a worst case scenario, since both the propylene hydrogenation reaction rate and the homogeneous and heterogeneous fuel combustion reaction rates are considerably overestimated. The qualitative effects of the operating conditions on the reactor behaviour of a reverse flow reactor coupling fuel combustion reactions with reversible endothermic reactions are investigated using these worst case kinetic data, in order to challenge a general solution to avoid back-conversion even for endothermic equilibrium reactions with a very fast reaction rate of the reverse reaction.
3. Effect of reversible reactions
The extent of the conversion losses at the end of the reactor due to the thermodynamic equilibrium has been investigated for the propane dehydrogenation/methane combustion reaction system. In these calculations, the axial gas phase momentum balance has been taken into account to allow for a pressure drop over the monolith caused by the high gas velocities during the fuel combustion reaction phase. The required inlet pressure affects the specification of the operating conditions. Before discussing the simulation results, this will be outlined in more detail subsequently.
3.1. Effect of the inlet pressure
A higher inlet pressure during the exothermic reaction phase has a twofold effect on the specification of the operating conditions. Firstly, to achieve the same amount of energy release during the exothermic reaction phase, the exothermic inlet mass fraction or inlet gas velocity or cycle time should be decreased corresponding to the increase in the inlet pressure. Secondly, the inlet pressure effects the maximum temperature through its influence on the overall reaction rate. For methane combustion at
over a
monolithic catalyst (with properties listed in Table 4) the methane combustion rate is mainly determined by kinetics (the overall efficiency factor accounting for internal and external mass transfer limitations is approximately 75% assuming the kinetics as given in Table 2). For small methane concentrations, the heterogeneous methane combustion obeys an overall second order kinetics, first order in the methane and first order in the oxygen concentration (Trimm & Lam, 1980). At these small methane concentrations, the oxygen concentration is approximately constant, so that the methane combustion can essentially be considered as a pseudo-first order reaction with a pseudo-first order reaction rate constant linearly dependent on the total pressure. Thus, for methane combustion at high gas velocities the maximum-temperature number Θ, defined in Part I, decreases by about a factor four if the inlet pressure is doubled.
(1)
If the maximum time-averaged production capacity of the endothermic products is restricted by a maximum temperature constraint then an increase in the inlet pressure during the exothermic reaction phase has an adventitious beneficial effect on the time-averaged production capacity. The maximum temperature constraint specifies a maximum value for the maximum-temperature number. A higher inlet pressure, therefore, allows an increase of the exothermic inlet mass fraction and thus a reduction of the exothermic cycle time, while still complying with the maximum temperature constraint. However, a higher inlet pressure during the exothermic reaction phase increases the combustion reaction rate, so that the matching of the endothermic and exothermic Damköhler numbers requires a reduction of the endothermic gas velocity relative to the exothermic gas velocity and as a consequence thereof the production capacity is reduced. Hence, an optimum in the production capacity is expected as a function of the inlet pressure. Furthermore, the increase in the inlet pressure and corresponding increase in the exothermic inlet mass fraction is restricted by the lower explosion limit or by the condition of a positive heat front velocity to assure recuperative heat exchange. Using a homogeneous model assuming negligible temperature differences between the gas bulk and the catalyst surface, the heat front velocity can be approximated by (e.g. Froment, 1990)
(2)
stating that a positive heat front velocity is assured, if the adiabatic temperature rise is smaller than the maximum temperature rise. Thus, the exothermic inlet mass fraction is subjected to the following condition:
(3)
For a fuel combustion reaction system with a maximum temperature constraint of about
, the exothermic inlet mass fractions ensuring wrong way behaviour are below the lower explosion limits. Finally, it is noted that at higher adiabatic temperature rises, the equation for the heat front velocity may become less accurate, because the temperature difference between the gas and the catalyst is proportional to the adiabatic temperature rise in the fully developed laminar flow regime.
Taking the inlet pressure effects into account, the endothermic and exothermic operating conditions have been specified following the design rules derived in Part I. An overview of the selected input parameters is given in Table 5.
Table 5. Operating conditions used for the propane dehydrogenation/methane combustion reaction system
Empty Cell
Endothermic reaction phase Exothermic reaction phase
Empty Cell
Propane dehydrogenation Methane combustion
Inlet reactant mass fraction ωg,in, dimensionless 1.0 0.0060
Inlet gas velocity
0.20 10.0
Inlet pressure
1.0 3.0
Reaction cycle time
90 12
Total reactor length (m) 4.0
Switching scheme
3.2. Effect of the thermodynamic equilibrium
In Fig. 1, the cyclic steady state axial profiles for the catalyst temperature (always at the end of a reaction cycle) and gas phase mass fraction profiles are plotted for the propane dehydrogenation/methane combustion reaction system for the operating conditions listed in Table 5. For clarity only the axial profiles of the process steps with the gas flowing in the forward direction are shown, since the chosen switching scheme (scheme
, see Part I) will result in symmetrical profiles. From Fig. 1, the enormous influence of the propane dehydrogenation thermodynamic equilibrium is clear. The low temperatures at the reactor outlet at the beginning of the endothermic propane dehydrogenation cycle cause an almost complete back-conversion of propylene to propane. Due to the exothermicity of the propylene hydrogenation reaction the outlet temperature strongly increases, however, inducing considerable reduction of the back-conversion at the end of the propane dehydrogenation cycle. The back-conversion thwarts itself. High overall propane conversions are accompanied by high outlet temperatures and low outlet temperatures involve low overall propane conversions. For the sake of completeness it is remarked here that the back-conversion is even complete during the entire endothermic reaction cycle for a switching scheme where the order of feeding endothermic and exothermic reactants is the other way around (switching scheme
, see Part I).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Effect of the propane dehydrogenation thermodynamic equilibrium on the cyclic steady state axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and the gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) at the beginning (↦) and end
of the forward endothermic and exothermic cycles (operating conditions listed in Table 5).
Since the endothermic reaction phase is carried out first when switching the flow direction, the back end temperature front is located more inside the catalyst at a greater distance from the rear end of the reactor during the endothermic reaction phase. The longer residence time at lower temperatures results in much higher conversion losses for this switching scheme. Thus, full conversion and recuperative heat exchange cannot be combined together for a reversible endothermic reaction in a reactor set-up filled completely with active catalyst. In the subsequent sections, a solution is proposed enabling full conversion and recuperative heat exchange simultaneously.
4. Inactive sections
In order to suppress back-conversion or large energy losses, inactive monoliths could be placed at both ends of the reactor flanking an active catalyst section in the middle. If the reverse reaction becomes important only at relatively low temperatures and the exothermic reaction ignites at much higher temperatures, inactive sections can prevent back-conversion completely without any influence on the temperature profiles for the exothermic reaction cycle. The axial temperature and concentration profiles then coincide with those discussed in Part I, where the endothermic reaction was considered irreversible. However, this is a very hypothetical case. In virtually all relevant reaction systems, the reverse reaction already becomes important at temperatures well above the ignition temperatures of combustion reactions.
Nevertheless, if the temperature front at the back end (in relation to gas flow direction) of the temperature profile could be located inside the inactive section at the rear end of the reactor during the complete endothermic reaction cycle, back-conversion and thus large energy losses could be prevented. In this case, the composition of the product gases can be ‘frozen’ at the equilibrium composition corresponding to the conditions of high temperatures in the active catalyst section when the product gases are cooled in the inactive section. In order to move the rear end temperature front inside the inactive section, the endothermic reaction phase should be carried out after the exothermic reaction phase in the same gas flow direction, so that switching scheme Ia should be selected.
Fig. 2 shows axial profiles in the cyclic steady state of the catalyst temperature and gas phase mass fraction for the forward process steps, for the case where the active section is shortened and two inactive sections of
length are positioned at both reactor ends (keeping the total reactor length the same), again for the propane dehydrogenation/methane combustion reaction system and the operating conditions listed in Table 5.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Effect of inactive sections of
length flanking the catalyst bed at both sides on the cyclic steady state axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and the gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) at the beginning (↦) and end
of the forward endothermic and exothermic cycles (operating conditions listed in Table 5).
Firstly, by comparing the axial profiles of Fig. 1, Fig. 2, it is clear that the inactive sections are effective in reducing the back-conversion and convective energy losses. However, the back-conversion cannot be completely avoided. Especially at the beginning of endothermic reaction cycle the back end temperature front of the axial temperature profile is not completely situated in the inactive section. The temperature at the transition from the active to the inactive section at the rear end of the reactor is about
at the beginning of the endothermic cycle, which is well below the plateau temperature in the centre of the reactor (ca.
). Due to this temperature gradient in the active catalyst section, still considerable conversion losses occur during the first stages of the endothermic reaction cycle. Due to the movement of the temperature fronts towards the rear end of the reactor during the forward endothermic reaction cycle and the energy production by the reverse reaction, the temperature at the transition from the active to the inactive section increases, causing a further reduction of the back-conversion. The temperature decrease at the back end of the active catalyst section is caused by the order of the reaction phases in the switching scheme. Although it is necessary to carry out the endothermic reaction phase after the exothermic reaction phase in the same gas flow direction in order to move the back end temperature gradient inside the inactive section, the front temperature gradient is strongly decreased during the endothermic reaction phase. This results in a large endothermic reaction zone at the end of the endothermic reaction phase and furthermore lower temperatures at the transition between the active and inactive sections when the endothermic reactants are fed from the opposite side. The conversion losses could be reduced somewhat by decreasing the endothermic inlet gas velocity relative to the exothermic gas velocity (better matching of reaction zones), however, at the expense of a lower overall production capacity.
Secondly, high temperature peaks are formed at the transition from the inactive to the active section. In the first half of the exothermic cycle, the temperature peak is formed and then the maximum temperature diminishes when the temperature front moves into the active catalyst bed (see Fig. 3a). The high temperature peaks directly result from the requirement to locate the back end temperature front in the inactive section at the rear end of the reactor during the entire forward flow endothermic reaction cycle. When switching to the exothermic reaction phase in backward flow, the exothermic reactants are heated to high temperatures in the inactive section. The exothermic reactants then enter the active catalyst bed at high temperatures, as a result of which the fuel is combusted in a very small first part of the active catalyst section at the transition from the inactive to the active catalyst section, causing locally very high temperature peaks. Obviously, the temperature peaks would be considerably less pronounced, if the heterogeneous reaction rate or the adiabatic temperature rise of the exothermic reaction phase were smaller.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Effect of the length of the inactive sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides on the evolution of the (a) maximum temperature during the exothermic cycle in the cyclic steady state (operating conditions listed in Table 5), (b) gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction at the reactor outlet during one exothermic and endothermic reaction cycle in the cyclic steady state (operating conditions listed in Table 5) and (c) outlet gas phase temperature during one exothermic and endothermic reaction cycle in the cyclic steady state (operating conditions listed in Table 5).
The effect of the length of the inactive sections flanking the active catalyst bed at both reactor ends keeping the total reactor length constant is presented in Fig. 3. This figure shows that large inactive sections are effective in reducing the back-conversion (Fig. 3b) and large convective energy losses (Fig. 3c), however, at the expense of the formation of temperature peaks exceeding the maximum allowable temperature (Fig. 3a). Moreover, conversion losses could not be completely avoided, because the back end of the active catalyst section could not be maintained at the plateau temperature. The extent to which back-conversion occurs in this set-up with entirely inactive sections flanking the active catalyst bed is mainly determined by the reaction rate of the reverse reaction at high temperatures. Consequently, entirely inactive sections cannot be used to completely suppress back-conversion for fast equilibrating reversible endothermic reactions.
5. Less active sections
Although the reverse reaction is completely inhibited in an entirely inactive section, it might also be sufficiently retarded in a much less active catalyst section. If the exothermic reactants do react in this much less active section, while the reactions during the endothermic reaction cycle take place predominantly in the active catalyst section, the back-end temperature gradient can be kept inside the less active sections during the endothermic reaction cycles and back-conversion can be prevented. This requires a much higher exothermic conversion rate compared to the endothermic conversion rate, which is generally the case and also applies for the propane dehydrogenation/fuel combustion reaction system.
However, despite the desired spatial separation of the reaction zones obtained by using different catalyst activities, the energy released at the exothermic reaction zone should be transferred to the endothermic reaction zone. Only in the sequential reactor configuration effective use can be made of the movement of the temperature fronts, so that the reaction zones are spatially separated, but not relative to the temperature front and the energy release and consumption. Starting by feeding exothermic reactants, energy is stored at the front temperature front in the less active section. During the exothermic reaction phase this temperature front moves towards the active catalyst bed. When the temperature front reaches the transition between the less active and active catalyst sections, endothermic reactants are fed in the same flow direction. The energy stored by the exothermic reaction in the less active section is now consumed by the endothermic reaction in the active catalyst bed. At the moment of switching from the exothermic to the endothermic reactants, the back-end temperature front has moved into the less active section, so that the backward reaction rate is strongly reduced preventing conversion losses.
To carry out the exothermic reaction in a much less active section, propane combustion is proposed instead of methane combustion. Since the heterogeneous propane combustion reaction rate is roughly 250 times larger than the heterogeneous methane combustion reaction rate at
(Ma, Trimm, & Jiang, 1996), a 250 times less active section compared to the active catalyst bed can be used under further comparable operating conditions as before for the methane combustion. In this work it has been assumed that the reduction in catalytic activity is achieved by reducing the overall platinum loading. A lower activity can also be achieved differently, e.g. by using a catalyst with a much smaller internal catalyst surface area or washcoat thickness or by selecting a catalyst with a different active component. The operating conditions used to study the effect of the less active sections for the propane dehydrogenation/propane combustion reaction system are given in Table 6. The reactor length has been increased to
to avoid overlapping reaction zones, necessitating a corresponding increase in the inlet pressure during the exothermic reaction cycle to
.
Table 6. Operating conditions used for the propane dehydrogenation/propane combustion reaction system
Empty Cell
Endothermic reaction phase Exothermic reaction phase
Empty Cell
Propane dehydrogenation Propane combustion
Inlet reactant mass fraction ωg,in, dimensionless 1.0 0.0030
Inlet gas velocity
0.20 10.0
Inlet pressure
1.0 4.0
Reaction cycle time
45 15
Total reactor length (m) 5.0
Switching scheme
Simulation results for the case using two
length,
less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both ends are presented in Fig. 4. In this calculation homogeneous propane combustion has been ignored. The influence of the homogeneous propane combustion is discussed below. The axial mass fraction profile clearly shows the spatial separation of the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones, while the energy released by the exothermic reaction is effectively transferred to the endothermic reactants, shown by the axial temperature profile. At the transition between the less active and active sections, a small temperature peak is created during the exothermic reaction phase. However, the maximum temperature increases only to some extent and the maximum allowable temperature is not exceeded (see Fig. 5). Fortunately, the influence of the length of the less active sections on the axial temperature profiles at the same operating conditions is relatively small, as can be seen in Fig. 6. For smaller less active sections, the reaction zones are shifted somewhat towards the reactor ends, but the maximum temperature is hardly effected. Due to the very high gas velocities during the exothermic reaction phase, the back-end temperature profile (opposite to where the reactants are fed) is levelled out, rendering the matching of the reaction zones less critical.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Effect of
length, 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides on the cyclic steady state axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and the gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) at the beginning (↦) and end
of the forward endothermic and exothermic cycles (operating conditions listed in Table 6 and homogeneous propane combustion neglected).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Effect of the length of the 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides on the evolution of the maximum temperature during the exothermic cycle in the cyclic steady state (operating conditions listed in Table 6 and homogeneous propane combustion neglected).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Effect of the length of the 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides on the cyclic steady state axial catalyst temperature at the end of the forward exothermic cycle (operating conditions listed in Table 6 and homogeneous propane combustion neglected).
Furthermore, the back-end temperature profile is indeed located in the less active sections at the reactor ends. However, at the very end of the reactor in the less active section (at ca. 4.5–
axial position for the forward flow cycle, see Fig. 4) the backward reaction still takes place even on a 250 times less active catalyst bed. This back-conversion is mostly caused by the extremely large overestimation of the backward reaction rate at low temperatures. However, considering the worst case scenario the
less active sections at both reactor ends could be replaced by
less active sections flanking the catalyst bed and
completely inactive sections at the reactor ends. In this set-up, the back-conversion can be almost completely eliminated during the entire endothermic reaction phase, further minimising convective energy losses (see Fig. 7).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Effect of
length, 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides and
completely inactive sections at the reactor ends on the cyclic steady state axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and the gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) at the beginning (↦) and end
of the forward endothermic and exothermic cycles (operating conditions listed in Table 6 and homogeneous propane combustion neglected).
Finally, use of less active and inactive sections at the reactor inlet and outlet not only avoids back-conversion, it also saves on catalyst costs. Furthermore, the less active and inactive sections protect the much more expensive active catalyst bed, because the large temperature gradients at the reactor inlet and outlet are completely located in these less active or inactive sections. Obviously, one should take special care during start-up of the reactor to avoid too high temperatures in the active catalyst bed.
5.1. Effect of homogeneous propane combustion
In the discussion above, homogeneous propane combustion has been neglected. In Fig. 8, the simulation results are shown including the homogeneous propane combustion for the case of
length, 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed and
completely inactive sections at the reactor ends for the operating conditions listed in Table 6. Taking the homogeneous propane combustion into account the overall propane reaction rate has increased considerably (see Fig. 9). This causes firstly a decrease in the maximum temperature and secondly a decrease in the plateau temperature, because the exothermic reaction zone is shifted somewhat towards the reactor end relative to the endothermic reaction zone. Due to the decrease of the plateau temperature the propane conversion is strongly reduced, because the equilibrium conversion is a strong function of the temperature between 800 and
for pure propane feed at atmospheric pressure.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Effect of homogeneous propane combustion for the case of
length 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides and
completely inactive sections at the reactor ends on the cyclic steady state axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and the gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) at the beginning (↦) and end
of the forward endothermic and exothermic cycles (operating conditions listed in Table 6).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Comparison of the heterogeneous and homogeneous propane combustion reaction rates for the case of
length, 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides and
completely inactive sections at the reactor ends at the end of the forward exothermic cycle in the cyclic steady state (operating conditions listed in Table 6).
6. Plateau temperature control
Since the plateau temperature determines the equilibrium conversion, it is necessary to control this temperature. However, the plateau temperature is not directly controlled, but is a resultant of the relative positions of the endothermic and exothermic reaction zones. In an adiabatic reverse flow reactor, the plateau temperature can be increased by shifting the relative position of the exothermic reaction zone relative to the temperature front more inwards compared to the endothermic reaction zone (see Part I). This can be achieved by decreasing the ratio of the endothermic to exothermic gas velocities, which reduces the time-averaged production capacity. If the operating conditions are selected so that the exothermic reaction zone is located much more inward relative to the temperature front compared to the endothermic reaction zone, the plateau temperature will equal the maximum temperature. The maximum temperature is mostly determined by the exothermic operating conditions. In this case, the plateau temperature can be indirectly set via the specification of the exothermic operating conditions.
However, a new method to directly control the plateau temperature is proposed, making use of the differences in catalytic activity along the axial position in the reactor. When adding methane to the propane/air mixture during the exothermic reaction phase, the propane combustion takes place in the less active section, but most of the methane will be combusted in the active section because of the much lower methane combustion rate compared to the propane combustion rate. Thus, the methane combustion stores energy far inwards relative to the temperature front, thereby strongly increasing the plateau temperature. In Fig. 10, simulation results are presented using simultaneous combustion of methane and propane during the exothermic reaction cycle. It is shown that the plateau temperature increases almost
from 868 to
using an addition of only
methane to the propane/air mixture, which represents an additional adiabatic temperature rise of only
. Fig. 11 shows that the plateau temperature and thus the minimum endothermic outlet mass fraction can be directly controlled with the inlet methane mass fraction.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Increase of the plateau temperature by simultaneous combustion of methane and propane for the case of
length, 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides and
completely inactive sections at the reactor ends on the cyclic steady state axial profiles of the catalyst temperature (top) and gas phase mass fraction normalised with the inlet mass fraction (bottom) at the beginning (↦) and end
of the forward endothermic and exothermic cycles (operating conditions listed in Table 6, methane inlet mass fraction during the exothermic cycle was set to 0.0010).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Effect of the methane inlet mass fraction on the cyclic steady state plateau temperature and minimum endothermic outlet mass fraction using simultaneous combustion of methane and propane during the exothermic reaction phase for the case of
length, 250 times less active sections flanking the catalyst bed at both sides and
completely inactive sections at the reactor ends (operating conditions listed in Table 6).
The ratio of the inlet concentrations of methane and propane for the exothermic combustion reaction phase and the platinum content of the less active and active sections can be used to control the maximum temperature and the plateau temperature and to optimise the time-averaged production capacity at the desired (equilibrium) conversion and the reaction coupling energy efficiency.
7. Summary and conclusions
The novel reactor concept for highly endothermic reactions at elevated temperatures with possible rapid catalyst deactivation, based on the indirect coupling of endothermic and exothermic reactions in reverse flow in the sequential reactor configuration, has been extended for reversible endothermic reactions. Using a detailed simulation model it has been shown that for the propane dehydrogenation/methane combustion reaction system in a platinum-based monolithic catalyst, considering a worst case scenario for the kinetics, most of the propane conversion is lost at the end of the reactor due to low exit temperatures resulting from the reverse flow concept. Due to the exothermicity of the propylene hydrogenation the temperatures at the reactor outlet could increase, reducing this ‘back-conversion’, but increasing convective energy losses. Full conversion and recuperative heat exchange cannot be combined for reversible reactions in a reactor filled entirely with active catalyst.
It has been demonstrated that positioning inactive sections flanking the catalyst bed at both reactor ends can reduce this back-conversion or convective energy losses. However, the back-conversion cannot be avoided completely. Furthermore, at the transition between the inactive and active sections large temperature peaks are formed, largely exceeding the maximum allowable temperature, at least for relatively fast combustion reactions.
For the sequential reactor configuration, effective use can be made of the movement of the temperature fronts enabling one to separate the exothermic and endothermic reaction zones spatially, but not relative to the temperature front. Due to the movement of the temperature front, the energy released by the exothermic reactions can be efficiently transferred to the endothermic reactants although the reaction zones are at different axial positions. The solution proposed to achieve full equilibrium conversion and recuperative heat exchange simultaneously and avoiding too high temperatures is to place less active sections flanking the active catalyst bed and small completely inactive sections at the reactor ends and to use propane combustion for energy supply. In the less active sections, the propane combustion can take place and the propylene hydrogenation can be sufficiently retarded. Small completely inactive sections can be placed at the reactor ends to avoid back-conversion where the temperature decreases to very low temperatures, if the propylene hydrogenation reaction rate might become significant even on a much less active catalyst section. Furthermore, the temperature gradients are located completely in the less active or inactive sections, protecting the active catalyst bed. Finally, adding methane to the propane/air feed during the exothermic reaction cycle allows direct control of the plateau temperature and thus the propane conversion during the endothermic reaction cycle.
Notation
specific external catalyst surface area,
heat capacity,
gas phase concentration of component
effective diffusion coefficient,
binary diffusion coefficient,
Knudsen diffusion coefficient,
activation energy,
fraction of the washcoat distributed in the channel corners, dimensionless
reaction free enthalpy,
h external heat transfer coefficient,
reaction enthalpy,
k reaction rate constant
pseudo-first order reaction rate constant,
pre-exponential reaction rate constant,
pre-exponential pseudo-first order heterogeneous reaction rate constant,
pre-exponential pseudo-second order heterogeneous reaction rate constant,
external mass transfer coefficient,
thermodynamic equilibrium constant, atm
M molar mass,
total number of components, dimensionless
p pressure, Pa
p parameter in the calculation of the propane dehydrogenation reaction rate
q parameter in the calculation of the propane dehydrogenation reaction rate
production rate of component A by heterogeneous reactions,
production rate of component A by homogeneous reactions,
reaction rate of component A without mass transfer limitations,
R gas constant,
total internal and external specific catalyst surface area,
cycle time, s
T temperature, K
adiabatic temperature difference, K
axial interstitial gas velocity,
w heat front velocity,
x mole fraction,
Greek letters
washcoat thickness, m
monolith porosity,
washcoat porosity,
catalyst efficiency, dimensionless
conductivity,
effective heat dispersivity,
density,
washcoat tortuosity
mass flux,
platinum loading in the washcoat, %
mass fraction,
Subscripts
component
avg average
c catalyst phase
g gas phase
i component i
in at the inlet
max maximum
methane combustion
min minimum
ov overall
propane combustion
propane dehydrogenation
washcoat
Superscripts
endo endothermic reaction phase
exo exothermic reaction phase
het heterogeneous reactions
hom homogeneous reactions
Dimensionless numbers
maximum-temperature number
Biot number for mass transport
washcoat Thiele modulus
Symbols
forward flow
backward flow
forward flow, at the beginning of the cycle
forward flow, at the end of the cycle
backward flow, at the beginning of the cycle
backward flow, at the end of the cycle
Acknowledgements
The financial support by the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (N.W.O.) is gratefully acknowledged.
Appendix A. Modelling of internal and external mass transfer limitations
The overall reaction efficiency factor for a pseudo-first order heterogeneous reaction including internal and external mass transfer limitations is given by
(A.1)
in which the washcoat Thiele modulus Φwc and the dimensionless mass Biot number Bix are defined as
(A.2)
(A.3)
The pseudo-first order reaction rate constant is approximated by
(A.4)
The effective diffusion coefficient in the pores of the washcoat Deff,wc is approximated using an effective bulk diffusion coefficient Deff and the Knudsen diffusion coefficient DK
(A.5)
In case of low reactant concentrations, the effective reactant-gas mixture binary diffusion coefficient can be estimated with Blanc's law using the binary diffusion coefficients Dij (calculated from Fuller's equation) and the molar fractions xi (Reid, Prausnitz, & Poling, 1988):
(A.6)
Assuming a narrow pore size distribution and straight pores the Knudsen diffusion coefficient can be estimated from (Hayes & Kolaczkowski, 1997)
(A.7)
Considering the washcoat as an isothermal flat slab, the internal washcoat efficiency ηwc can be approximated by
(A.8)
In a square monolith channel the washcoat is not equally distributed along the perimeter of the channel. The washcoat thickness in the corners of a square channel can be almost an order of magnitude larger than the washcoat thickness along the sides of the channel. To correctly account for the unequal washcoat distribution, two-dimensional calculations over the cross-section of the washcoat should be carried out (see, e.g., Leung, Hayes, & Kolaczkowski, 1996). However, this level of complexity is avoided in this work. Instead, an approximate average efficiency factor is used to roughly account for this unequal washcoat distribution.
A.1. Average internal washcoat efficiency for square monolithic channels
In order to derive a reasonable approximation for the average internal washcoat efficiency taking the radially non-uniform washcoat distribution into account, information about the average (δwc), minimum (δwc,min) and maximum (δwc,max) washcoat thickness is assumed, e.g. obtained by SEM.
The washcoat distribution is assumed to be distributed in four equal parts along the sides of the square, having a washcoat thickness equal to the minimum washcoat thickness, and four equal parts in the four corners with a washcoat thickness linearly varying between the minimum and maximum washcoat thickness, as depicted in Fig. 12. The fraction of the washcoat distributed in the corners fc is approximated by
(A.9)
Since the washcoat efficiency decreases with an exponential-like function with increasing washcoat thickness, the average washcoat efficiency of the corners is approximated with a logarithmic mean of the minimum and maximum washcoat thickness. Thus, the average washcoat efficiency is approximated by
(A.10)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. Schematic representation of the washcoat distribution over the cross-section of a square monolith channel and the approximation proposed.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
