I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Detection of propane by GaON thick-film gas sensors
Abstract
The detection mechanism of propane by gallium oxynitride (GaON) sensors was investigated. The electrical resistance of the sensors was monitored during propane exposure (0, 15, 30, 50 and 100 ppm) in dry and humid atmosphere (10% relative humidity at room temperature), at different oxygen concentrations (0, 2, 5, 10 and 20%). Temperature programmed desorption-mass spectrometry (TPD-MS) was used to investigate the species desorbing from the surface of GaON after exposure to propane at 250 C and 350 C. The detected species were propene, propane, CO, CO2, NH3 and H2O. This study demonstrates that the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane on GaON can take place without oxygen in the gaseous phase, thus implying a redox Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, which involves the contribution of lattice oxygen and possibly nitrogen during the activation of propane on the sensor surface.
1. Introduction
The sensing properties of gallium oxynitride (GaON) thick films were recently reported by our group for the first time [1]. The objective of the present study was to investigate the response of GaON to propane. This latter is highly flammable (with lower and upper flammability limits of 2.1 and 9.5 vol.%, respectively), and is widely used as domestic and industrial gas. Its detection by chemical gas sensors has often been reported in the literature [2], [3], [4], [5]. To better understand the surface reactions involved in the sensing process of propane by GaON, temperature programmed desorption-mass spectrometry (TPD-MS) was used to analyze the species desorbing from the surface of the sensitive material after exposure to propane at two different temperatures.
2. Experimental
We described the preparation of gallium oxynitride powder in a previous paper [1]. The sensors that we used typically consisted of a 25 μm thick sensitive layer deposited by screen-printing onto platinum electrodes on sapphire substrates. The sensors were mounted on a TO8-socket by using Pt wires (200 μm × 40 μm) micro-welded on both contacting pads and pins. Then, they were placed in a Teflon-made test chamber.
Resistance measurements of four sensors were simultaneously performed by use of an electrometer (Keithley EMM617) combined with a scanner (Keithley 705), connected to a computer via an IEEE port. A gas mixing system was used to supply the different gas mixtures. The gas mixture composition was adjusted using computer driven mass flow controllers (Brooks). The total gas flow supplied to the sensors was fixed at 200 ml/min. The sensors were exposed to propane (0, 15, 30, 50, and 100 ppm) in dry and humid atmosphere (10% relative humidity) at different oxygen concentrations (0, 2, 5, 10, and 20%). Prior to gas exposure, the sensors were stabilized during 6 h under background gas (dry or 10% RH air). Between two successive exposures to propane, the sensors were purged for 1 h with background gas to allow the sensors to recover. The temperature of the measurements was set at 250 C.
The TPD-MS experiments were performed by heating (5 C/min) 150 mg of GaON powder in a quartz microreactor under helium (Praxair, 5 N) flow (65 ml/min). The gas phase was analyzed by mass spectrometry, using a Hewlett-Packard G1800A GCD system. The flow of propane (Praxair, 2.5 N) was fixed to 35 ml/min. The reaction products between propane and GaON were identified after chemisorption of the gas on the oxynitride for 30 min, at two different temperatures (250 C and 350 C), and desorption under helium flow, up to 500 C.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Electrical characterizations
The effect of oxygen and water vapor on the electrical characteristics of GaON sensor upon exposure to propane was investigated. In first step, the tests were carried out in pure nitrogen, i.e. in the absence of oxygen and water vapor. Fig. 1 shows the (R0/Rgas) signals of GaON exposed to various propane concentrations, in dry nitrogen and in (N2 + 10% RH). R0 is the resistance in pure nitrogen and in (N2 + 10% RH), respectively. Rgas represents the sensor resistance in propane. The resistance of GaON decreases upon exposure to propane, in accordance with the reducing nature of this gas and the n-type semiconducting behavior of the oxynitride. The sensor displays a relatively high response to propane. These results demonstrate the ability of GaON to detect propane in the absence of oxygen, indicating that propane can react with the semiconductor surface via a direct mechanism. However, it is noteworthy to mention that the signal seems to saturate for propane concentrations higher than 30 ppm. This will be discussed later in the manuscript. As expected, water vapor interferes with propane sensing by GaON, and thus the signal is slightly smaller than in dry nitrogen. This indicates that H2O adsorption on the sensor surface is in competition with propane adsorption. Water vapor decreases the number of available sites for propane dissociation, thereby reducing the signal. Furthermore, similar to what is observed in dry nitrogen, the signals level off for propane concentrations above 30 ppm.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Signal of GaON vs. propane concentration (0, 15, 30, 50, and 100 ppm) in dry nitrogen and in (N2 + 10% RH), at 250 C.
The influence of oxygen on propane sensing is shown in Fig. 2. R0 represents the resistance in (N2 + %O2), and Rgas the sensor resistance in propane. As the oxygen concentration increases, the baseline resistance of GaON rises gradually due to increasing electron transfer from the semiconductor conduction band to the surface states created by the ionosorption of oxygen [6], [7]. Upon exposure to propane, the sensor signals are slightly lessened as the oxygen concentration is higher. Interestingly, no saturation of the signals is observed in the presence of oxygen in the gaseous phase. Moreover, the signals in 2, 5 and 10% of oxygen are greater than in pure nitrogen for a given propane concentration. Therefore, these measurements reveal that propane can also react with the semiconductor according to an indirect mechanism, i.e. with ionosorbed oxygen.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Signal of GaON in function of propane concentration (0, 15, 30, 50, and 100 ppm) in the presence of oxygen at different concentrations (0, 2, 5, 10, and 20%), in dry nitrogen at 250 C.
3.2. TPD-MS experiments
A reference experiment, using pure helium only, was carried out to probe the nature of the species desorbing from the powder during heat-treatment up to 580 C (Fig. 3). Previous work in our lab has shown that the oxynitride is thermally stable, under inert gas, at this temperature [1], [8]. The main desorbed species detected are water and a small amount of ammonia, which is not surprising considering the fact that GaON was prepared via ammonolysis. CO2 (m/z = 44) desorption is also detected and appears to be a two-step process. The first signal is observed between 50 C and 200 C, while the second signal shows in the temperature range 250375 C. CO2 desorption at higher temperature is also associated to CO desorption as a (m/z = 28) peak is observed in this temperature range. Table 1 gives the molecular fragments of interest.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. TPD-MS curves of GaON obtained from ambient temperature to 580 C, under helium gas flow.
Table 1. Identification of the different molecular fragments
m/z Product
16 NH2
18 H2O
28 CO
29 CH3CH2
42 CH2CHCH3 (propene)
44 CH3CH2CH3 (propane) or CO2
TPD-MS profiles obtained after adsorption of propane on the surface of GaON, for 30 min at 350 C, are shown in Fig. 4. The desorbed species detected are propane (m/z = 29), CO2 (m/z = 44), and propene (m/z = 42). In addition, water and a small amount of ammonia also desorbed from the sample, as previously observed during the reference experiment. The same desorbed species are also observed after reaction between propane and GaON at 250 C. Table 2 shows the maximum intensities of the peaks of propane, propene, and CO2 at 250 C and 350 C. The comparison of the peak maximum intensities of each ion enables us to get a relative idea of the amounts of desorbed species at the two different temperatures. The amount of propene desorbing after propane adsorption at 250 C is lesser than at 350 C, indicating that propane dissociation on the surface of GaON is enhanced at higher temperature. However, further TPD-MS investigation taking into account the effect of several parameters such as temperature, gas flow, time of exposure to the gas, would give us more information on propane oxidation mechanism.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. TPD-MS curves of GaON after propane adsorption at 350 C.
Table 2. Maximum intensities of the desorption peaks after propane adsorption on GaON at 250 C and 350 C
Adsorption temperature (C) m/z = 29 (propane), intensity (a.u.) m/z = 42 (propene), intensity (a.u.) m/z = 44 (CO2 and propane), intensity (a.u.)
250 12500 2000 55000
350 13000 8000 35000
These results demonstrate that, although oxygen is not present in the gaseous phase, propane can be oxidized on the surface of GaON. No traces of acrolein (C3H4O, m/z = 56) have been detected, as it is often reported during the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane [9], [10], [11]. However, the experiments reported in the literature were performed at a higher temperature (500 C). Therefore, the temperatures used in our study (250 C and 350 C) may not promote the formation of acrolein.
3.3. Proposition of a propane detection mechanism
Dehydrogenation of propane to propene has been extensively studied in heterogeneous catalysis, in particular on gallium-based catalysts [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], [17], [18], [19], [20] as propene is an important intermediate in the petrochemical industry [21]. Several studies carried out on the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by metallic oxides (VOx, MoOx, WOx, NbOx) have shown that the kinetically relevant steps involve the activation of methylene CH bonds in propane [22], [23], [24]. Indeed, the CH bond of a methylene group (CH3CH2CH3) is weaker (401 kJ/mol) than the CH bond of a methyl group (CH3CH2CH3) (420 kJ/mol) [25]. Therefore, when propane is weakly adsorbed on the oxide surface, the methylene bond interacts in the first place with lattice oxygen atoms from the catalyst. A kinetics study of the ODH reaction of deuterated propane (CH3CD2CH3 and CD3CD2CD3) also confirmed these results [26]. Furthermore, the interaction between propane and lattice oxygen atoms results in the formation of isopropoxide C3H7O species and OH groups [26]. The CH bond dissociation occurs via transition states which require electronic transfer from oxygen atoms to metallic cations [23]. Therefore, the surface conductance of the catalyst is enhanced.
The experiments described in our work involve the detection of propane by GaON in pure nitrogen but also at different oxygen concentrations. Therefore, one must also take into account the effect of adsorbed oxygen species on the propane oxidation reactions. Zanthoff and co-workers [9], [27] have studied the role of oxygen species in the oxidative conversion of propane over vanadium mixed oxide catalysts by using isotopic labelled 18O2 in the gaseous phase. The reaction products detected by mass spectrometry consisted of propene C3H6, CO and CO2 (COx). The adsorbed oxygen species were found to produce mainly total oxidation products (COx), whereas the lattice oxygen acts more selective. Fig. 5 presents a simplified reaction scheme of the ODH of propane. The nucleophilic lattice oxygen O2 atoms participate in the partial oxidation of propane to propene, while the electrophilic adsorbed oxygen O species, from the gaseous phase, are involved in the direct and complete propane oxidation.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. The ODH of propane simplified reaction scheme [27].
The TPD-MS experiments performed in this study indicate that propane can be oxidized on the surface of GaON in the absence of gaseous oxygen. Therefore, propane oxidation on GaON occurs via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism [27], [28], i.e. the lattice oxygen species are included in the reaction products, while the gallium cations are reduced. However, the detection of propane in the absence of oxygen is limited as mentioned in the sensor characterization section (Fig. 1). The observed signal saturation indicates that the active lattice species are removed from the surface. Without oxygen in the gaseous phase, the active sites cannot be re-oxidized, which explains the signal saturation. Only a diffusion of the anions from the bulk to the surface could re-activate the sites, although this mechanism implies a relatively slow kinetics.
In the absence of oxygen in the gaseous phase, we propose the following propane sensing mechanism on the surface of GaON.
Weak propane adsorption by interaction with lattice oxygen or possibly nitrogen (Olat or Nlat).
(1)
C3H8 + Olat  C3H8Olat or C3H8 + Nlat  C3H8Nlat
Methylene CH bond activation by a vicinal Olat or Nlat.
(2)
C3H8Olat + Olat  C3H7Olat + HOlat or C3H8Nlat + Olat  C3H7Nlat + HOlat
Propene desorption by hydrogen β-elimination.
(3)
C3H7Olat + Olat  Olat + C3H6 + HOlat or C3H7Nlat + Olat  Nlat + C3H6 + HOlat
Hydroxyl groups recombination, forming water and reducing the Ga3+ cations.
(4)
HOlat + HOlat  H2O + Olat + v
In these reactions, HOlat is a hydroxyl group formed from lattice oxygen, C3H7Olat and C3H7Nlat are propyl groups bonded to the gallium atoms by oxygen or nitrogen (GaOC3H7 or GaNC3H7) and
is a vacancy. In (2) and (3), the hydrogen atom acts as an electron donor towards the lattice oxygen, thus forming hydroxyl groups according to:
(5)
H + Olat  (HOlat)+ + e
An electron is injected into the conduction band of GaON, therefore the conductance of the sensor is increased. The formation of hydroxyl groups on the surface leads to H2O elimination, thereby creating an anionic vacancy (4).
Propane dehydrogenation results in the formation of isopropoxide groups which can be transformed either in propene by β-elimination of one hydrogen (3) as illustrated in Fig. 6, or be oxidized successively to form intermediates. These latter can desorb as CO and CO2, creating anionic vacancies which can contribute to the conductance enhancement of GaON by diffusing into the bulk and becoming electron donors by ionization.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Proposed propane oxidation mechanism on the surface of GaON in the absence of oxygen in the gaseous phase.
Propene can either desorb or be oxidized in COx even in the absence of oxygen. These results confirm the existence of a secondary mechanism where residual surface oxygen atoms and/or lattice anions O2 oxidize propene. This process is in competition with propane activation. Furthermore, the conversion of propane into propene is higher at 350 C than at 250 C, indicating that dehydrogenation reaction and propyl group adsorption are enhanced at higher temperature.
Hydrogen adsorption on lattice nitrogen atoms would lead to injection of one electron in the conduction band of GaON. However, one can wonder if successive adsorption of hydrogen atoms could give rise to NH3 desorption. NH3 was detected during the TPD-MS measurements in the absence and in the presence of propane. Therefore, it could arise from NH3 adsorbed during GaON synthesis by thermal nitridation. An in situ infra-red analysis could allow us to investigate the possible formation of amine groups on the surface of GaON upon exposure to propane.
In the presence of oxygen in the gaseous phase, we have observed that the conductance of GaON decreases as the adsorbed oxygen atoms act as electron acceptors, according to:
(6)
Adsorbed oxygen contributes to the complete oxidation mechanism of propane, and also to secondary propene oxidation, but is not an active site in propane decomposition into propene [27]. After dehydrogenation, a propyl group (C3H7) can adsorb on
species, and thus form propionate group with a vicinal
, which can transform to formiate and then be oxidized in CO or CO2. The hydrogen issued from dehydrogenation can adsorb on
species, thereby forming a hydroxyl group and releasing one electron in the conduction band of GaON. Upon dehydroxylation of the surface (4), anionic vacancies are formed along with gallium cations reduction. The dissociative adsorption of oxygen from the gaseous phase re-oxidizes the active sites, as follows:
(7)
Therefore, the surface is freshly re-oxidized, and the active sites are available again to dissociate propane. As observed in Fig. 2, when gaseous oxygen is present, it is clear that no saturation of the signal occurs, which corroborates our hypothesis.
4. Conclusion
For the first time, the sensing characteristics of gallium oxynitride sensors upon exposure to propane were investigated. The results show that these sensors exhibit a relatively high response to the tested gas. The effect of water vapor and oxygen concentration on the sensor signals was also analyzed. In order to propose a detection mechanism of propane by GaON, we investigated the products desorbing from the oxynitride after exposure to propane by TPD-MS experiments. The detected species are propene, propane, CO, CO2, NH3, and H2O. Based on these results and bibliographic data, we propose the following propane sensing mechanism: the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane implies a redox Marsvan Krevelen mechanism involving the contribution of lattice oxygen and possibly nitrogen during the activation of the methylene CH bond. We assume that the rupture of the methylene CH bond and the allylic proton abstraction are the kinetically relevant steps for both propane dissociation and propene oxidation, respectively. CO and CO2 are among the products arising from the reaction between propane and GaON in the absence of oxygen in the gaseous phase. This clearly demonstrates that residual superficial oxygen and/or lattice oxygen participate to the complete propane oxidation and to the secondary propene oxidation.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 