I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Coke Deposition on Pt-Based Catalysts in Propane Direct Dehydrogenation: Kinetics, Suppression, and Elimination
Abstract
Pt-based catalysts are widely used in propane dehydrogenation to meet the dramatically increased demand of propylene from an on-purpose catalytic process. Although the process has been commercialized with high selectivity for decades, the prevention of coke deposition is still a daunting challenge. Herein, in order to provide a full coverage of the impact of coke deposition, we critically analyze the process of coke formation on Pt-based catalyst. First, the intrinsic nature of coke, including composition, distribution, and effects, is presented. The developments of kinetics model of coke growth are discussed and compared to offer insight into mechanism of coke formation. Moreover, the focus is put on the ways to prevent coke, which included cofeeding reductant gas, promoter, and support engineering. The advantage and limitation of each method is well elaborated, and the unique working principle behind each prevention method is uncovered. The new developments of single atom/site and confined metal cluster strategies are indicated. The regeneration of the deactivated catalyst is also discussed, which has a direct influence on the coke elimination and metal dispersion. In the end, the possible optimization strategies are suggested for the future Pt catalyst rational design. The current work provides a comprehensive summary of the coke formation, which lays out a solid and essential base for the further developments of Pt catalysts in propane direct dehydrogenation.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane dehydrogenation Pt-based catalysis coke formation kinetics promoter
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
As one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry, the demands of propene have dramatically increased in recent years. (1) The conventional routes of obtaining propene are mainly related to stream or catalytic cracking of downstream products of the petroleum industry, which are extremely energy intensive with low selectivity. With the large-scale Shale gas discovery worldwide, (24) the abundance of light alkanes including methane, ethane, and propane open new opportunities to propene production. The on-purpose catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH, C3H8  C3H6 + H2) is one of the most promising and effective routes to massively produce propylene, which has been already exploited in industry. PDH is highly endothermic (ΔH298 = 124.3 kJ/mol), and the reaction temperature is normally above 500 C. The reaction is limited by thermodynamics, and the yields of propene can be increased by lowering propane partial pressure or raising temperature. The catalysts of PDH could be divided into two classes: metal and metal oxide. The most representative catalysts of these two categories are platinum and chromium oxide, respectively. Platinum-based catalysts have been already employed in Oleflex commercial PDH process from the UOP company. (1) Polymer-quality propylene can be obtained from Oleflex technology. The regeneration of the catalyst in Oleflex proceeds via combustion of cokes with a chlorine-air mixture. Chromium oxide is another major industrial catalyst of PDH applied in Catofin process from Lummus. The chromium oxide is generally supported on alumina. One disadvantage of chromium oxide catalyst is the toxicity, which potentially causes issues with regard to safety and post-treatment. Except for platinum and chromium oxide, there are a bunch of other materials which are also investigated as PDH catalysts, including Fe, (57) Co, (8,9) Ru, (10) Rh, (11) VOx, (12,13) WOx, (14) GaOx, (15,16) and ZrOx. (1719) Although these catalyst candidates show excellent activity in a laboratory test, they are still not industrially implemented.
Because of its high selectivity and decent durability in PDH, Pt-based catalysts have been extensively investigated for several decades. (20,21) However, there is still much room for further improvements of Pt catalysts in PDH. In particular, the coke formation during the reaction severely undermine the catalytic performance and stability. The deceptively simple reaction formula of PDH, in which two hydrogens are abstracted from propane, does not fully represent the complex network as shown in Figure 1. The various intermediates and propylene in PDH are prone to precede the deep reaction at elevated temperature, which ultimately leads to coke. Consequently, coke covers the metal catalysts and blocks access to the active site. Even worse, the removal of coke is not trivial. For example, the duration of the regeneration is the same as dehydrogenation in Catofin technology. Another side effect of coke removal is that the catalyst could agglomerate and lose activity under harsh conditions during regeneration. Therefore, it is urgent to find the effective ways to reduce coke during PDH.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Network of surface reactions of PDH. The black solid arrows represent the elementary reaction of CH bond breaking and the red dashed arrows represent the elementary reaction of CC bond breaking. All elementary reactions are reversible. Adapted from ref (34).
In fact, there are several different methods proposed in literature to lessen the coke formation in PDH. The cofeeding reductive gas such as hydrogen with propane can significantly reduce the coke formation. The alloying Pt with second metal such as Sn is extensively explored to reduce coke besides other beneficial effects. (2224) It is indicated that Sn promoter could constrain Pt in a small ensemble, which is detrimental to side reactions. In addition to Sn, there are many reports of various transition metals, including Cu and Zn, which can be helpful to curb coke. (25,26) Supports are also of relevance to control coke formation. For example, the acid sites on the support are suggested to favor side reaction like polymerization. (27) Therefore, the modification of nature of support is a useful way to improve coke resistance. The size of the Pt catalyst is also a factor with significant influence on the reactivity and side reactions in PDH. The role of small-sized (around 3 nm) Pt particles is not yet clear in the literature. (2830) Some studies indicated that they are very coke resistance, but the opposites were also reported. Interestingly, the single Pt atom catalyst recently was also examined in PDH, which reveals a different mechanism when reaching the size limit. (24,25) The computational simulations based on density functional theory (DFT) were very active in the exploration of PDH catalyst and provide important insight on the deactivation mechanism. A descriptor between the barrier of the CH bond activation and propylene desorption are proposed from several DFT studies. (3133) The descriptor can be a measure of balance between activity and selectivity. Moreover, the complex reaction network of PDH is also mapping out from DFT study. In our previous study, the kinetic Monte Carlo simulation based on DFT was performed to give a detailed description of coke precursor formation during PDH. (34) It is revealed that the geometry of the active sites has a pivotal importance to side reactions.
Recently, there were several excellent reviews which provide a comprehensive description of light alkane activation including propane dehydrogenation. (21,3537) Although these articles supplied a solid ground to understand the CH bond activation on metal or metal oxide catalysts, the coke formation is not a particular focus in these articles compared with the reaction mechanism, the nature of the active site, catalyst design, and so on. However, the broad subjects covered in these reviews limited the contents associated with coke formation, leading to a lack of in-depth analysis. Overall, there is still an absence of an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, which has an apparent importance on reactivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation.
In this Review, we are striving to give a concise and coherent description of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH from a comprehensive survey of literatures and provide the origin and nature of coke, which is scarcely discussed previously. The kinetic aspects of coke formation are also examined, which is also not covered in previous reviews. Moreover, the development and comparison of different methods to inhibit coke are elaborated. At the end, the catalyst regeneration and outlook for future improvements are supplied. The current work can be a timely summary for the stability of the metal catalyst in catalytic conversion of short alkane molecules.
2. THE ACQUAINTANCE OF COKE
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Composition, Distribution, and Consequence of Coke Deposition
The exact constituents of coke are not well resolved because of the complex process of the coke formation. Most studies broadly attributed coke as the deposition of undesirable organic compounds. (38) A recent study with gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and thermogravimetric (TG) analysis pin down the detailed components of coke under PDH on PtSn catalysts. It was suggested that the coke mainly consists of three kind of species: aliphatics, aromatics, and pregraphite. (39) The proportion of each kind of coke and species under their reaction condition were given, and the aliphatic cokes take up the larger part of coke deposition, with the ratio of C/H around 1.5. However, a coke hydrogenation study indicated that the species of coke deposition vary on different catalysts. (40) It is suggested that the species could be atomic carbon or aromatics on Pt/Al2O3 and C3 species on PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, respectively. Overall, the composition of cokes varies with reaction condition and catalytic system without a universal definition.
The coke distribution is all over the catalysts, including both active metal and inert support. The temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) analysis (22,41,42) revealed that there are two peaks when coke elimination happens, as shown in Figure 2a. One peak is around 325 C, which is related to the coke on metal, and contains more hydrogens. The other one is at higher temperature around 425 C, which is ascribed to the coke on the support. Moreover, the coke on the support can be further categorized into two types: one is easy to remove, and the other one, mainly graphitic coke, is more resistant, as shown in Figure 2b. (43) The coke on metal is easier to remove by oxidization than the counterpart on the support. The coke at different locations has distinct effects, and catalyst deactivation is mainly caused by coke on metal. (44) However, the coke on the support does not have a noticeable influence on activity and stability. This uncovers a guiding principle that the coke location is an important factor, not the absolute amount of coke. Specifically, Kumar et al. reported that cokes on PtSn/SBA-15 catalyst were nearly 3 times the counterparts on Pt/SBA-15, however the former catalyst has better activity, selectivity and stability. (45) This phenomenon is partly explained by the fact that coke can be transferred from metal (type1) to support (type2) and keep active sites free from coking, (39,43,46,47) as shown in Figure 2c. Although more coke is yielded, the activity is not affected because the support accommodates most cokes. In the end, the coke distribution is a factor which can be adjusted to prolong the life of catalyst.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Two types of coke identified by TPO; S1S3 represent different ratios of propane, propylene and hydrogen in feed gas. (22) (b) Three types of coke identified by TPO. (43) (c) Amount of different types of coke over time on Pt and PtSn catalysts. (43)
One of most direct observations of coke influence is that the catalyst becomes black after the reaction. It is quite straightforward to conclude that cokes will block the active sites and destabilize the catalysts from experimental observation. However, DFT calculations reveal more information on the coke effect at the molecular level. The calculations demonstrate that the energy barrier for dehydrogenation significantly increase when carbon atom adsorption at the nearby site. Moreover, the coadsorbed C atoms downshift the d-band center of Pt, which consequently decreases the activity toward CH bond activation according to d-band theory. (48) More interesting, the coke seem to have some positive effects on the selectivity of propylene. The DFT calculations reveal that the adsorption energy of propylene on the graphene partially covered Pt (111) surface is significant lower than on clean surface. This gives a hint that the desorption of propylene is easier on the coked covered surface than the clean surface, which leads to good selectivity. (42) Our previous DFT-based kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) simulation indicated that the coke precursors affect the geometry and number of exposed active sites, leading to lower activity but higher selectivity and lower coking rate. (34) This is similar to doping of catalysts by an inactive metal, such as Sn and Cu. Therefore, the origin of higher selectivity and lower coking rate in the steady state than in the quick deactivation state could be attributed to the electronic effect and geometric effect introduced by coke deposition itself.
In this section, the composition, distribution, and effect of coking are described in detail, as they are the prerequisite knowledge to effectively curb coke and extend durability of catalyst. The composition and distribution are the intrinsic nature of coke. There are also more uncertainties regarding these two aspects because of the dependence on reaction condition and catalyst. Although the exact composition of coke is still under debate, the precursors of coke are most likely to be from the deep dehydrogenation. Therefore, the prevention of the precursor could cut off coke formation from beginning. The distribution of coke has distinct effects on the stability. The methods which induce the facile coke between the catalyst and the support could potentially enhance stability. The coke effects on the activity and durability of the catalyst are devastating and inevitable. Therefore, it is urgently needed to develop an effective strategy to inhibit coke formation, as discussed in section 3.
2.2. Kinetics of Coke Formation
Kinetics has an obvious importance in understanding the coke formation process. Unfortunately, this aspect has been seldom discussed or completely neglected in previous reviews. First of all, the coke is formed immediately when the catalyst is exposed to propane, as shown in Figure 3. Operando Raman spectroscopy analysis of PDH on Pt/Al2O3 shows that the coke forms rapidly in the first few minutes, and then the intensity of the coke species slowly drops to a constant over an hour. (49,50) The initial coke formation quickly covers the active sites. Then, the occupation of available sites significantly reduced the rates of coke formation after initial stage. (51) However, the process of coke formation is complex because various intermediates during PDH can undergo deep reaction and lead to coke formation. Nevertheless, several kinetic models of coke formation have been proposed.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Amount of coke over time for different temperatures from experimental data and monolayermultilayer coke growth model prediction. (51)
First, a simple relation between the concentration of coke with time,
(A)
was given by Voorhies. (52)Cc is the concentration of coke, t is time, A and n are constants depending on the reaction condition, such as catalyst, temperature, and pressure of reactant. This expression fitted the several experiments well with different value of A and n. (52) However, coke concentration is exponential function with only one independent variable, t, in model A. Other empirical formulas were further developed. (53) The deactivation function, φc, was introduced to account for the effect of catalyst deactivation on the formation rate of coke as follows:
(B1)
several formula of deactivation function, φc, were tested by 50 experiments and
(B2)
fitted the data best. (54)rc0 is the initial rate of coke formation. Although model A and B could fit some experimental data well, little progress has been achieved with regard to understanding the coke formation in detail. Moreover, the physical meaning of the constants is absent, which hinders the rational restraint of cokes.
A more sophisticated model called monolayermultilayer coke growth model (MMCGM) was raised by Nam et al., which delivers deeper insight in describing the process of coke formation. (55) It is used to describe the formation of coke in PDH widely. (51,56,57) In those studies, the coke has been divided into two types: the monolayer coke and the multilayer coke. The monolayer coke quickly covers the active sites and deactivates the catalyst, and its formation rate is related to the number of free active sites. In addition, the multilayer coke began to grow as soon as the monolayer coke formed, and the rate of multilayer coke formation is related to the amount of monolayer:
(C1)
(C2)
(C3)
Cc is the total coke concentration, Cm is the concentration of monolayer coke, CM is the concentration of multilayer coke, Cmax is the maximum concentration of monolayer coke, ki is kinetic constant, and ni is the kinetic order.
Moreover, the MMCGM was further improved by Annaland et al. (58) They performed a dual coke growth kinetic model to describe the coke formation. In their model, the polymerization of adsorbed propylene was considered as the pathway of coke formation. First, propylene formed a propylene dimer (PD). Then PD reacts with propylene to form coke precursor (CP). The monolayer coke is formed through the reaction between CP and PD or propylene. Finally, the multilayer coke is formed from monolayer coke. The formation of coke deposits is an oligomerization process. Although the mechanism is straightforward, the mode is simplified with only considering propylene as the source of coke. However, it still does not fully describe the complex reaction of coke formation in PDH.
A more thorough kinetic model was investigated by Li et al. (59) The deep dehydrogenation and crack from propane to the C atom and the polymerization of propylene are both considered. Moreover, the effect of hydrogen on coke formation rate is also introduced. The mechanism is represented as
Considering the effect of H2 in preventing coking, the partial pressure of H2 is included in the formula for the rate of coke formation. Besides, only propylene is considered a precursor. Then the coking rate is written as
(D1)
(D2)
rc is the rate of coke formation, ac is the activity of the catalyst for coking, k is coking reaction rate constant, PC3H6 and PH2 are the partial pressures of C3H6 and H2, K is adsorption equilibrium constants of H2, Cc is the concentration of coke, and Cmax is the maximum concentration of coke. This model was used to simulate the deactivation of PDH in pore structure catalysts recently. (60) Besides, the individual site poisoning model was developed for coke formation, which indicates that the rate of coke deposition is proportional to the available sites for coke formation. (61)
The evolutions from Model A to D gradually increase the sophistication and reach for more universal description. Models A and B only discussed the relationship between the coke concentration and time. The fitness of the models are valid within a range of parameters. However, the models lack a sound interpretation of the mechanism of coke formation. However, MMCGM divides the coke into two types. The influences of different kind of cokes are explicitly included in the expression. The improved model based on MMCGM by Annaland et al. considers the details of coke formation as polymerization of propylene in PDH. Model D includes the polymerization of propylene and C atom adsorption as the formation of coke. Therefore, these two remedies pin down to detailed pathways of coke formation which make them more realistic for description of coke in PDH. Although those models show certain success, all of these models are still insufficient to fully cover the process of coke formation because of the extreme complexity of cokes which can arise from reactants, products, intermediates, or combinations of them. It is envisioned that the effective cooperation between advanced experimental techniques and microkinetic/kMC simulation which included all relevant elementary steps could further push the boundary of coke kinetics.
3. Suppression and Elimination of Coke Deposition
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. The Effect of Cofeed
3.1.1. Cofeed of Hydrogen
Propane is usually cofed with hydrogen in the industrial PDH process. It is suggested that hydrogen decreases the rate of coke formation and increases the stability of the catalyst by removing the precursor of coke. (43) The computational simulations verified this explanation that the energy barrier of dehydrogenation of propylene is increased when H adsorbs on the Pt surface, which prevents deep reaction. (62) The similar observation is obtained on several Pt surfaces, such as Pt(111) and Pt(100). (48) Moreover, for a conventional PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, the reduced rate of coke formation is mainly ascribed to less coke accumulation on the support in hydrogen atmosphere, as shown in Figure 4a. The coke amount on metal is almost unchanged, but the coke amount on the support is decreased with increasing pressure of hydrogen. (22) In the hydrogen atmosphere, the acidity of the support is weakened by conversion from Lewis acid site to Brnsted acid sites, which is helpful to reduce the rate of coking on the support. Additionally, the graphitization of coke is positively correlated with hydrogen partial pressure. (49) This implied that it is harder to remove coke under hydrogen feeding because the highly ordered graphitic coke is combusted at higher temperature.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) Relationship between rates of different coke formation and partial pressures of H2. S1S5 and S7 are experiments under different feed compositions, black for coke on the metal and red for coke on the support. (22) (b) The relationship between TOF of propane and propylene and partial pressures of H2O. (63)
3.1.2. Cofeed of Water
Moreover, a small amount of water in the feed was reported to decrease the coke formation and increase the activity. (24,57,63,64) The addition of H2O decreases the apparent activation energy of propane conversion, but also decreases the selectivity of propylene, as shown in Figure 4b. However, the DFT calculation showed that the energy barrier of elementary reactions in PDH are increasing slightly when H2O existed. (63) Therefore, the effect of steam in improving activity could be ascribed to the low coking rate, which leads to a high percentage of free active sites. (63) In particular, the amount of coke decreases significantly on PtSn/CeO2 (decreasing by 82%) and PtSn/Al2O3 (decreasing by 90%) under moisture. (24)
3.2. The Modification of Active Component
3.2.1. Effect of Structure and Size
The most straightforward method to curb coke is to modify the structure and composition of the Pt catalyst. For example, the size and structure of the Pt particle significantly affects the performance. The catalyst containing smaller Pt particles has higher activity but also a higher rate of coke formation, leading to more coke depositions. (28,30) The larger surface area of the smaller Pt particles is responsible for the higher coking rate, as shown in Figure 5a. (28) Furthermore, the phenomena is explained as the smaller particles include plenty of undercoordinated sites which are very active in CH and CC bond activation. (65) Besides, the energy barrier of CH bond breaking is lower than the energy barrier of propylene desorption at undercoordinated sites, which is leading to the occurrence of deep reaction. (66) Therefore, the geometry and size of Pt has an apparent importance for coke formation. Moreover, the size and exposed surfaces are also found to influence the reaction mechanism and kinetics of PDH. (28,67)
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Effect of Pt catalyst size. (28) (b) Amount of cokes on the Pt-based catalysts with different promoter and support. (79) (c) Time evolution of coke deposition of supported Pt catalysts with support doping. (44)
3.2.2. Effect of Promoter
As mentioned in section 2.1, adding promoter is one of the most effective methods to modify the nature of Pt catalyst. Tin is the most widely applied promoter for Pt, which has enhanced improvements in many reports. (40,46,65,6871) The main effect of Sn is to improve the selectivity and stability as shown in entries 13 of Table 1. Moreover, the coke precursor adsorbed weakly on PtSn, which enables the easy transfer from metal to support. (72) By this method, the active components are kept intact, which delivers good activity and stability. (45) The improvements induced by Sn promoter are usually attributed to geometry effects and electronic effects, respectively. The infrared spectroscopy indicated that the Sn blocked the undercoordinated sites and constrained Pt particles into smaller ensembles. (73) Moreover, the transmission electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and H2-chemisorption analysis shows that addition of Sn led to higher dispersion of Pt. (45) Hence, the Sn promoter significantly changed the geometry of Pt catalysts. Furthermore, the electronic effect is also revealed. The X-ray absorption near edge structure spectra showed that the absorption edge is shifted to higher energy, indicating Sn withdraws electrons from Pt. (74) Besides, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy shows the oxidized Sn is formed in PtSn/Mg-SBA-15 catalyst. (75)
Table 1. Catalytic Performance (Initial Activity, Selectivity, Stability, and Coke) of Various Pt-Based Catalystsa
method entry element original catalyst initial activity (activity or conversion) selectivity coke
metal promote 1 Sn Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 47 lmol·s1·gcat1 88%, 99% 73, 38 atc/atPt
2 Sn Pt/CeO2 (24) 100%, 39.5% 0, 84.5% 0.9, 0.5 wt %
3 Sn Pt/SBA-15-IW (45) 11%, 16% 77%, 99%  0.1,  0.3 wt %
4 Cu Pt/Al2O3 (25) 52%, 44% 77.2%, 90.8% N/A
5 Cu Pt/Al2O3 (33) 14%, 40% 54%, 76% N/A
6 In Pt/Mg(Al)O (81) 22.9%, 27.5% 94%, 97.5% N/A
7 Ga Pt/Al2O3 (79) 45.5%, 39.4% 81.8%, 99.5% 1.12, 0.73 mg·h1·gcat1
8 Ga Pt/CeO2Al2O3 (79) 47.1%, 41.1% 86%, 99.6% 0.98, 0.41 mg·h1·gcat1
9 Ga Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 26 lmol·s1·gcat1 88%, 98% 73, 25 atc/atPt
10 Al PtSn/SBA-15 (83) 50.8%, 55.9% 99.2%, 99.1% N/A
11 Na PtSn/SUZ-4 (86) 12.8%, 20.2% 82%, 92% 14.5, 8 wt %
12 Ca PtSn/ZSM-5 (85) 35.1%, 34.7% 54%, 76% 12.8, 4.5 wt %
support additive 13 Ce Pt/Al2O3 (79) 45.5%, 47.1% 81.8%, 86% 1.12, 0.98 mg·h1·gcat1
14 Ce Pt3Ga/Al2O3 (79) 39.4%, 41.1% 99.5%, 99.6% 0.73, 0.41 mg·h1·gcat1
15 Zn PtSn/Al2O3 (87) 50%, 50% 90%, 97% 6.1, 4.9 wt %
16 Ga Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 53 lmol·s1·gcat1 88%, 99% 73, 11 atc/atPt
17 Ga Pt/Mg(Al)O (44) 32, 74 μmol·s1·gcat1 87%, 99% 50,  25 atc/atPt
18 Ti Pt/Al2O3 (89) 50.5%, 47.3% 78.5%, 89.5% 10.6, 14.7 wt %
19 In Pt/Mg(Al)O (23) 18, 67 lmol·s1·gcat1 88%, 98% 73, 27 atc/atPt
aThe value before comma in each column is the original catalyst, and the other value is the counterpart obtained after inclusion of metal promoter and support additive.
Furthermore, both effects have been intensively studied by DFT calculations. Specifically, the electronic effect is found to influence the energy barrier of dehydrogenation and desorption of products, and the geometry effect has effects on the local coverage of free sites for the side reaction. The energy barrier and coverage could change the reaction rate as suggested by the rate law. For example, Nyknen and Honkala study the adsorption of propane and propylene on three different PtSn alloy surfaces, Pt3Sn(111), Pt3Sn/Pt(111), and PtSn2(111). (76) The results show that the increasing Sn concentrations downshifted the d-band center, which leads to decreasing activity. Bader charge analysis showed that charge transfers from Sn to Pt atoms. Both appear to weaken the adsorption of propylene. In addition, the energy barriers of elementary reactions on the PtSn alloyed surface were investigated by Yang et al. (31) Their results showed that the addition of Sn not only increases the energy barrier of propane and propylene dehydrogenation but also decreases the number of free sites that accommodate the product of cracking reactions, which lead to higher selectivity but lower activity. It is suggested that the Pt3Sn bulk alloy is the best candidate. Later, the calculations based on Pt3Sn(211) indicate that high selectivity and low coking amount on the PtSn catalyst can be originated from the absence of active Pt step sites. (77) It is generally proposed that the electronic effect dominates at low Sn loading, whereas the geometric effect is more important at high Sn loading. (78)
Besides Sn, other non-noble metals such as Cu, Al, and In have also been studied as promoters. The Pt/Al2O3 catalyst shows the improved selectivity and anticoking ability after promoted by Cu. It is suggested that the effects of Cu are similar to Sn. The favorable performance is attributed to the bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu (entry 4, Table 1). (25) Besides, the Pt/Cu single atom alloy shows a high stability in PDH. The catalyst exhibited a large difference between the energy barrier of desorption and deep dehydrogenation, which is helpful to prevent coke formation and leads to the high selectivity and stability (entry 5, Table 1). (33) Moreover, the addition of In could reduce the acidity strength of the catalyst and form PtIn alloy. The In-modified Pt catalyst shows a lower activity than the counterpart of Sn promoter, but with a better stability (entry 6, Table 1). (80,81) The introduction of Ga forms PtGa alloy on the Pt/CeO2Al2O3 catalyst. PtGa alloy decreases the size of Pt ensembles and blocks the defective sites, leading to the higher selectivity (entries 79, Table 1). On the other hand, Ga could also incorporate into CeO2 and enhance the surface oxygen mobility and capacity which is beneficial for stability (entries 1314, Table 1). (79) Both of them reduce the amount of coke as shown in Figure 5b. In our previous work, the Pt cluster which is bonded with inactive spices is helpful to increase stability. (34) Furthermore, the Pt ensembles with connected free sites lower than 3 are unfavorable for deep dehydrogenation. Hence, it seems that the monatomic Pt wire or Pt single atom surrounded by inactive metal is a good candidate for a PDH catalyst. (26,82)
3.2.3. Third Element Based on Sn Promoter
Further elements are introduced to tune the catalytic performance based on PtSn. The performances of a series of PtSnAl/SBA-15 catalysts show that the higher Al concentration leads to higher coke formation rate. (83) The addition of Al introduces more acid centers, which accelerates the formation of coke. It is determined that the optimal composition is PtSnAl0.2/SBA-15 (entry 10, Table 1). In contrast, the K addition is deemed to block the acid sites and leads to higher selectivity for PtSn/Al2O3. (84) Additionally, the best performance is observed on 0.49 wt % of K loading. By a similar rationale, the addition of Ca and Na also reduces the coke contents significantly as shown in entries 1112 of Table 1. (85,86) However, the excess of these promoters might result in performance degradation. (8486)
3.3. The Modification of Support
3.3.1. Doping of Support
The active components are anchored and dispersed by the support. The interactions between the catalyst and the support often have a direct influence on the activity, such as PDH. (23,44,79) The conventional support of a commercial Pt catalyst in PDH is Al2O3, which is acidic and is inclined to coke deposition. Therefore, the modification of supports is necessary to improve the anticoke ability of the catalyst. Vu et al. found that PtSn/ZnAl2O4 shows higher tolerance for deactivation than PtSn/Al2O3 on PDH due to the different coke mobility from metal to support (entry 15, Table 1). (87) The origin of the mobility of coke is caused by the contents of PtSn and Pt3Sn induced by different support during the reaction. Only PtSn alloy is formed on PtSn/ZnAl2O4 while the PtSn and Pt3Sn are both appeared on PtSn/Al2O3. The higher Sn brings the weaker adsorption of hydrocarbon which consequently increases the mobility of coke. The PtSn/CeAl2O3 catalyst shows a better performance on coking suppression and stability than PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst. It is concluded that the synergistic effects between Ce and Sn are working to prevent coking and Ce alone does not bring too much difference. (88) The Ga modification of Mg(Al)O support yields better performance for supported Pt and PtSn catalysts (entries 1617, Table 1). The better performance is ascribed to the formation of PtGa alloy. Moreover, it is hypothesized that Ga could also influence the catalytic performance of Pt at surface in a similar way as Sn, which reduces the amount of coke as shown in Figure 5c. (44) The experiments on the TiO2Al2O3 supported Pt catalyst show that the addition of TiO2 not only increases the electron density of Pt but also introduces the acid centers on the support. The former is helpful for selectivity and coke diffusion from the metal to the support, and the latter facilitates coking accumulation on the support. (89) With the optimal content of TiO2 (10 wt %), the catalyst would have a better performance by transferring coke from the active component to the support and leaving the active component free (entry 18, Table 1).
The metal oxide support usually presents certain acidity; for example, Lewis acid sites formed on the defective AIII site in Al2O3, (90) and Brnsted acid sites could be provided by the additional proton. (83) The both acid sites are active for CH bond activation; however, the Lewis acid site is assumed to be more active for dehydrogenation, and the Brnsted acid site is for cracking. (9092) The acidic strength is usually tested by NH3-TPD experiments, the desorption peaks in the regions of 120200 C, 200350 C, and 350450 C correspond to the weak, medium, and strong acid sites, respectively. (89) The formation of coke on oxides could be attributed to coke precursors formed by the cracking reaction. (93) The more acid sites and stronger acidity will lead to a significant amount of coke deposition. (72,89,94,95)
3.3.2. Pore Structure
The pore structure of the support is another factor which has a significant role in coke formation. (96) The acidity of the support was decreased after the modification of the pore structure of ZSM-5 by introducing hierarchical-pores, (96) which inhibits the formation of coke on the metal and improves the capacity of the support for coke. Moreover, the pore size has a direct effect on performance of PDH. The Pt catalysts on the microporous support show better selectivity, stability, and lower coke amount than the counterpart on the mesoporous support. (97) The simulation of the effect of the pore structure of the support on coking formation and deactivation shows that the structure of the pore could affect the coke accommodation. A support with more uniform, higher connected, and larger-sized pores could accommodate more cokes. (60)
As summarized in Table 1, most of the appropriate modification methods increase the activity and selectivity and decrease the amount of coke. Moreover, the transfer of coke from metal to support is accountable for the unexpected good performance when the total cokes are increased.
3.4. New Strategy: Single Atom/Site and Confined Cluster
In recent days, the new strategies of catalysts design in PDH are proposed and verified to effectively curb coke formation. The concept of a single atom/site is applicable for Pt catalysts, which achieve not only good activity but also impressive stability. The propane dehydrogenation is not a size-sensitive reaction. (98,99) Furthermore, the side reactions such as hydrogenolysis are size-dependent. This difference opened the opportunity which can achieve good activity and reduce cokes by diminishing side reactions from the rational adjustment of catalyst size. Under this principle, single atom/site strategies were explored to optimize PDH performance. Additionally, a nanosized Pt cluster, in particular confined in zeolite, demonstrated unique geometrical and electronic properties, which is different from conventional supported Pt clusters on open support. This difference is key to stabilize the metal cluster and minimize the coke formation. These two aspects of new strategies to design PDH catalysts are discussed below.
3.4.1. Single Atom/Site
Sun et al. successfully synthesized a Pt/Cu single atom alloy supported on γ-alumina and applied in propane direct dehydrogenation. (33) They found that the catalyst delivered the propylene selectivity of 90% with the formation rate of 10.6 mol·gPt1·h1 at 520 C. Moreover, the stable performance is verified for at least 120 h. The success of the catalysts was concluded from the breaking of the scaling relation between the CH bond activation energy and propene adsorption. In general, Pt alloy, in particular Pt3M (M = transition metal), has a low barrier for CH bond activation in propane. Unfortunately, it was accompanied with strong adsorption of propene, which led to unfavorable desorption. The single Pt surrounded by inert Cu significantly reduced the barrier of propene desorption which make the products desorption become favorable over the deep dehydrogenation. Consequently, the cokes are largely diminished as evidenced by the lifetime of the catalyst. Following a similar rationale, Nakaya et al. applied the Pt/Ga single atom alloy in PDH. (32) One of the interesting strategies adopted in this work is that Pt3Ga sites are selectively blocked by Pb, while the single Pt site was unchanged. The comparison between PtGa and PtGa-Pb catalysts indicated that the former deactivated very fast because coke formation, and the latter delivered a stable performance of 99.6% selectivity for 96 h at elevated temperature. Zhang et al. examined the cokes formation on a series different loading of Pt supported on alumina. (29) After PDH, it was observed that there are barely cokes found on 0.1 wt % loading Pt, which is corresponding to an atomic dispersed catalyst. In contrast, the amount of cokes on 3 wt % loading is nearly 4 times bigger than the counterpart on 0.1% loading. Multiple PtPt sites at high loading catalysts favor side reactions which are leading to coke formation. Overall, it is clearly demonstrated that single Pt atom has a good balance between dehydrogenation activity and coke regulation.
A single Pt site also possessed good resistance to coke formation. For example, Chen et al. successfully synthesized a single-site [PtZn4] catalyst. (26) They identified that a single-site on the catalyst is a Pt atom separated by four neighboring Zn as imaged from an aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (AC-HAADF-STEM). The single-site [PtZn4] catalyst significantly outperformed the conventional PtSn catalyst, in particular regarding coke formation, as shown in Figure 6a. It was indicated that [PtZn4] has no obvious deactivation during a 160 h test, and the conversion drop is only 0.04%. In contrast, a conventional PtSn catalyst shows a decrease of conversion from the initial 34.8% to 11.7% under the same condition. Further analysis reveals that the electrons from neighboring Zn transferred to Pt, which induced the electron accumulation. The rich electrons at Pt reduced the binding energy of propene and accelerated its desorption which prevent the further dehydrogenation and decrease coke formation. Overall, the application of single atom/site not only significantly reduce the coke formation but also create a new direction to optimize PDH performance.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) AC-HAADF-STEM images of Pt and PtSn catalysts and corresponding catalytic performance and stability. (26) (b) Schematic illustration of confined PtSn cluster in zeolite and related catalytic performance. (71)
3.4.2. Confined Pt Cluster
Recently, Cormas group developed a series PtSn cluster catalysts which are confined in zeolite and applied in PDH. (71) Although PtSn is the conventional PDH catalyst, the intriguing feature of the obtained catalyst is that the region selective deposition of PtSn cluster within zeolite. The subnanometer (0.50.6 nm) PtSn cluster is precisely located in sinusoidal 10R channels of siliceous MFI zeolite. The anchor site of the cluster is very important which renders not only the good stability without obvious sintering but also excellent resistance to cokes. Under the real industrial condition, the K-PtSn@MFI catalyst showed an initial propane conversion of 20% at 550 C and an initial selectivity to 97% propylene. More importantly, the propane conversion slightly decreased from 20% to 17% during a 70 h reaction, which indicates the superior stability. Furthermore, the role of Sn was uncovered to have distinct features from previous reports. It was suggested that the minimal interactions between Pt and Sn are sufficient to suppress coke formation. Sn is in close proximity with the Pt cluster, but it is not forming an intermetallic alloy compound as shown in Figure 6b.
Ryoo et al. used a mesoporous zeolite with surface framework defects as PDH catalyst support. (82) It was found that rare-earth elements such as La and Y can be trapped at these defective sites as atomic species. The much increased chemical potential of atomic La and Y enable them to form an intermetallic compound with Pt. Moreover, La/Y also enhanced the strong metalsupport interaction which increased catalyst dispersion. The synthesized PtLa/Y cluster with 3 nm diameter uniformly distributed within zeolite. The confined PtLa/Y cluster exhibited remarkable stability in PDH. Pt3La/Y catalysts has an initial 40% conversion and still retain 8% conversion after 30 days of reaction under a harsh condition and large space velocity. The excellent stability in PDH was also reported for PtZn cluster encapsulated in silicalite-1 (S-1) zeolite. The catalysts have extraordinary low deactivation constant of 0.001 h1, which is 200 times lower than the counterpart supported on Al2O3. (100) Overall, the mesoporous structure of zeolite yields a confined space for Pt-based cluster, and the unique interactions between them are accountable for the observed activity and stability.
3.5. Regeneration of Catalyst
Although the prevention of coke formation achieved impressive progress, the coke deposition is still unavoidable in PDH. Thus, it is mandatory to periodically regenerate the catalyst in industry. The main method to regenerate the coke-covered catalyst is to burn coke with oxidant. A low burning temperature means low energy consumption and cost. Besides, high temperature leads to the sintering of the active component. Hence, the control of burning temperature of coke is of great importance.
As aforementioned, the introduction of Sn could cause the transfer of coke from active site to support. A side effect of this practice is that the coke on the support is more difficult to remove than on metal. For example, the oxidation peak of coke shifts to a high temperature with the increasing contents of Sn, as shown in Figure 7. (101) Hence, the improvements of catalytic performance might cause the difficulty in regenerating the catalyst.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Coke combustion temperature in different Sn content: (a) 0% Sn, (b) 0.29% Sn, (c) 0.53% Sn, and (d) 1.67% Sn. (101)
Additionally, support engineering is a useful way to tune the burning temperature of coke. The different supports have distinct performance in burning coke. The oxidation temperature of coke on several supports is Pt/CeZrO2 < Pt/CeO2 < Pt/MgO < Pt/Al2O3 < Pt/SBA-15. The observed sequence is attributed to the different mobility of activated oxygen species on the support. (102,103) The largest temperature difference, between Pt/CeZrO2 and Pt/SBA-15, reaches 250 C. However, the regeneration by burning coke also caused Pt sintering. Hence, further oxychlorination is often used to keep the high disperse of Pt. (104)
4. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, coke deposition is a crucial issue for the commercial Pt-based catalysts, and many efforts have been made to understand and alleviate the detrimental effects. The structure, composition, and location of cokes are the prerequisite to inhibit coke formation. It is revealed that these factors are entangled, and the details regarding coke composition are still under debate. The kinetics of coke growth has an apparent importance for coke formation. Although there are several models available, none of them could resolve the mechanism at the molecular level. The cofeeding gas, metal promoter, and support modification are the verified effective methods to prevent coke formation. The cofeeding of hydrogen can remove the coke precursor and weaken the acidity of the support. Furthermore, hydrogens also aggregate the degree of coke graphitization which requires a higher regeneration temperature. The promoters, such as Sn, directly tune the catalytic properties of Pt from both a geometry and electronic perspective, which simultaneously increase activity and stability. However, the optimal kind and loading of promoter is still not concluded as there is a lack of guiding principle to govern a search. The additive to conventional support alumina can modify the acid/base strength and facilitate the coke transfer between metal and support. New developments of effective catalyst design are also noted. The success of single atom/site strategy wisely exploited the different size dependence of dehydrogenation and side reaction in PDH. The confined subnanosized Pt cluster in zeolite could be deposited at particular position with the unique interaction between catalyst and support, which exhibited excellent resistance to coke formation. Although these methods indeed alleviate the coke formation, the regeneration is still needed to prolong the life of the catalyst. Some strategies seem to be useful to lower temperature in regeneration which is important to reduce cost and stabilize activity. In the end, the collaborations between experimental and computational techniques are urgently needed to address the complicated issue in heterogeneous catalysis such as coke formation. On the basis of the previous studies, three aspects are proposed to reduce the effect of coke further:
1. The advance of novel design of active center: the geometry of active site has been verified to be a crucial factor to control coke formation. The rationale is that single Pt has been sufficient to abstract hydrogen from propane, while side reactions such as hydrogenolysis required multiple PtPt site. Hence, the catalyst with a small ensemble of Pt, such as atomic Pt wire and Pt single atom/site surrounding by inactive elements, seems to be a good candidate, which may be synthesized via alloying and spatial confinement by support. (105) In addition, the local environment has significant impact on single Pt atom/site as indicated in the other single atom catalysts. (106,107) In particular, these inert surrounding coordinated species induced significant charge transfer from/to an active center, which consequently modifies the electronic structure. It is obvious that the combinations of active species and neighboring elements will be enormous. It is suggested that machine learning can be exerted to meet this challenge. The data from either experiment or computation feed into a machine learning model, which not only efficiently screens highly effective catalysts candidates but also possibly identifies a valid descriptor.
2. The coke migration: it is evident that coke formation is inevitable in PDH. To accommodate more cokes before regeneration is an effective way to extend the durability of the catalyst. The coke migration from the active metal to the support is a feasible way to keep activity. The migration is closely connected with the nature of the metal and the properties of the support, such as mobility of oxygen and structure of pores. Moreover, the interface between the metal and the support also determine the coke migration to some extent. Therefore, to resolve the mechanism of coke migration will require both experimental characterization and DFT simulation. The latter is capable to give a detailed description of metalsupport interaction. (108,109)
3. The kinetics of coke formation: most available models provide a phenomenological description. Investigations of coke kinetics at the molecular level and the transformation between disordered coke and graphitic coke are extremely scarce, which hinders the discovery of effective methods to suppress coke. The difficulties are most likely originated from the diversity of coke precursor and complex network. Although it is not straightforward to extrapolate to coke on Pt, the methodologies adopted for graphene growth on a metal catalyst might be a potential candidate to supply more insights, which included large-scale kinetic Monte Carlo simulations (110112) and molecular dynamics. (113115)
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Bo Li - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8895-2054;  Email: boli@imr.ac.cn
Authors
Zan Lian - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China
Chaowei Si - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China
Faheem Jan - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China
ShuaiKe Zhi - Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science, Institute of Metal Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China;  School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Shenyang, Liaoning 110016, Peoples Republic of China
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 