I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Boosting Propane Dehydrogenation over PtZn Encapsulated in an Epitaxial High-Crystallized Zeolite with a Low Surface Barrier
Abstract
Metal clusters encapsulated in zeolites have attracted increasing attention because of their unique electronic properties with high stability, but diffusion limitation is the bottleneck in the utilization efficiency of active sites, especially in bulk crystals. Nanosized zeolites could effectively improve mass transport by shortening the diffusion length. However, their rough surface and low crystallinity lead to a high surface barrier and low stabilization effect, respectively. Here, we developed a dual-template method to synthesize finned MFI zeolites to encapsulate PtZn clusters. In a propane dehydrogenation reaction, the as-prepared PtZn@S-1-Fin exhibited a high specific activity of 17.0 molC3H6 molPt1 s1 at 600 C, which was about 1.7 times higher than that of PtZn confined in a nanosized zeolite. This could be attributed to the epitaxial highly crystallized zeolite combining a short diffusion length and a high surface permeability simultaneously.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:surface diffusion finned zeolite propane dehydrogenation PtZn alloy encapsulation
Propene serves as one of the most significant raw materials employed in the production of polypropylene, propylene oxide, acrolein, and other industrial products. (13) Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), as an on purpose propene production technology, is of great interest due to the rapidly growing demand for propene and increasing availability of propane from shale gas. (4) Pt-based catalysts are widely applied in industrial PDH processes due to their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and the limited extent of CC bond cleavage. On the basis of the reversible, highly endothermic, and structure-insensitive characteristics, it is favorable to maintain high Pt dispersion on a sub-nanometric scale at a high reaction temperature.
Zeolites, with a rigid microporous framework and high thermal stability, are considered as ideal supports to anchor sub-nanometric metal species. (57) In particular, the concept of regioselective encapsulation was proposed with the development of a synthetic strategy, which could stabilize Pt sites of less than 1 nm. (8) Liu and co-workers introduced a controllable amount of K+ to stabilize PtSn clusters in sinusoidal channels. (9) Meanwhile, Sun and co-workers developed ligand-protected direct H2 reduction method to encage PtZn clusters around the 5- and 6-membered rings (MRs) of zeolites. (10) Both catalysts showed high specific activity (3.5 and 3.55 molC3H6 molPt1 s1 s1) and excellent long-term stability at high temperature. Regioselective encapsulation contributes to a special structure with a core of a sub-nanometric Pt cluster and a shell of single-site Snδ+/Zn2+. This structure ensures that CC bond cleavage is shut down with no or minimal loss of the dehydrogenation activity. On these highly active catalysts, internal diffusion easily becomes the rate-limiting step. The encapsulated species in bulk zeolites often suffer from poor availability caused by small micropore size and long diffusion length.
Nanosized zeolites, with reduced internal diffusion length, are commonly applied to improve the utilization efficiency. (11,12) Nevertheless, a zeolite crystal size below 100 nm often suffers from low crystallinity and a rough surface, which lead to a high surface barrier that hinders the surface diffusion process. (13) Construction of a hierarchical zeolite structure also faces this problem. It is a challenge to design a novel topological zeolite structure to promote configuration diffusion and surface diffusion simultaneously. Recently, Rimer et al. developed finned MEL and MFI zeolites to enhance the mass-transport properties by the epitaxial growth of fin-like protrusions on seed crystals. (14) Furthermore, a metal encapsulated in a small and epitaxial highly crystallized zeolite may realize highly productive PDH.
In this work, we first confirmed the trade-off effect between the configuration diffusion length and surface diffusion by preparing PtZn clusters encapsulated in bulk zeolites with different crystal sizes. Then we developed a dual-template method to synthesize a finned MFI zeolite to encapsulate PtZn clusters. After direct H2 reduction, PtZn clusters were fixed in zeolites with a sub-nanometric scale (<1 nm) and templates were eliminated, as evidenced by Raman spectra (Figure S1). The resulting PtZn@S-1-Fin catalyst increased the accessibility of active sites and achieved highly productive PDH. This could mainly be attributed to the highly crystalline finned structure.
Figure 1ad shows the zeolite morphology of PtZn@S-1-400, PtZn@S-1-200, PtZn@S-1-100, and PtZn@S-1-Fin, respectively. Zeolites with different sizes were prepared, regulated by different ratios of TPAOH and H2O. The intracrystalline diffusion and surface barrier of propane were quantified through uptake rate measurements by an intelligent gravimetric analyzer (IGA). The relative diffusion rate was calculated by linear fits of the normalized uptake profile (Qt/Q0, eq S1). (15) As shown in Figure 1e, the relative diffusion rate in PtZn@S-1-100 is 1.4- and 1.7-fold higher than those of PtZn@S-1-200 and PtZn@S-1-400, respectively (Figure S2a). This is attributed to the shortened configuration diffusion length by reducing the crystal size. Nevertheless, when the crystal size was decreased to 100 nm, the uniformity of the zeolite surface obviously decreased (Figure 1c), leading to low surface permeability and crystallinity. The surface permeability was calculated from an initial uptake rate (eqs S2S6). (16) As depicted in Figure 1f and Figure S2b, the surface permeability of PtZn@S-1-100 was significantly lower than those of other catalysts. As measured by XRD (Figure 1g), the relative crystallinity of PtZn@S-1-100 was only 50% in comparison with that of PtZn@S-1-400 with the highest crystallinity (Figure S3). Figure 1h illustrates the relationship between diffusion length and surface barrier among the bulk zeolites with different particle sizes. Previously, overcoming the diffusion limitation was a challenge due to the trade-off effect between the configuration diffusion length and the surface uniformity.
Figure 1
Figure 1. SEM images of (a) PtZn@S-1-400, (b) PtZn@S-1-200, (c) PtZn@S-1-100, and (d) PtZn@S-1-Fin. (e, f) Normalized uptake (Qt/Q0) profiles of propane and (g) XRD patterns of the as-prepared samples. (h) Schematic illustration of the tradeoff effect between the crystal size/diffusion length and the surface barrier.
The novel finned structure of the zeolite for encapsulating metal species offers an opportunity to break the tradeoff effect. PtZn@S-1-Fin possessed some fins (3060 nm) growing epitaxially on the surface of zeolite seeds. The relative diffusion rate in PtZn@S-1-Fin was similar to that in nanosized zeolite (PtZn@S-1-100), owing to the short configuration diffusion length provided by the finned structure (Figure S2a). Moreover, the fins on zeolite seeds exhibited high crystallinity and a smooth surface. Both the surface permeability and relative crystallinity of PtZn@S-1-Fin were significantly higher than those of PtZn@S-1 100 and even slightly higher than those of PtZn@S-1-200 (Figure S2b). Thus, the unique finned structure of PtZn@S-1-Fin will improve mass transport properties by ensuring a high surface permeability and a short configuration diffusion length simultaneously (Figure S4).
Figure 2 displays the zeolite morphology and metal distribution of PtZn@S-1-200, PtZn@S-1-Fin and PtZn@S-1-100 after reduction at 550 C. PtZn@S-1-200 exhibited a typical hexagonal crystal (Figure 2a,b) In comparison, PtZn@S-1-Fin possessed many fins with a size of 3060 nm formed on the bulk crystal (Figure 2d,e). PtZn@S-1-100 exhibited coarse external surfaces and ill-defined external shapes, as shown in Figure 2g,h. Tomographic section images in Figure 2c,f provide direct proof that PtZn clusters were fixed in the zeolites (Figure S5). The average sizes of PtZn clusters were 0.92 and 0.91 nm for PtZn@S-1-200 and PtZn@S-1-Fin, respectively. These correspond to no characteristic Pt peak in enlarged XRD patterns (Figure S6). Nevertheless, the average particle size of PtZn@S-1-100 was 1.55 nm with a bimodal distribution (Figure 2i). An inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) analysis revealed that all samples possessed similar loadings of 0.450.50 wt % for Pt and 1.091.11 wt % for Zn (Table S1). Some metal species tend to agglomerate in PtZn@S-1-100 due to the weak stabilization effect caused by low crystallinity, which leads to a decreased number of active sites.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Schematic models and HR-TEM and tomographic images of (ac) PtZn@S-1-200, (df) PtZn@S-1-Fin, and (gi)PtZn@S-1-100.
The detailed electron structure of PtZn clusters was characterized by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), CO-adsorbed Fourier-transform infrared (CO-FTIR), and X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) with Ar-ion sputtering. As shown in Figure S7, the Pt L3-edge XANES spectra of PtZn@S-1-Fin and PtZn@S-1-200 were similar and showed a partially oxidized state. In the Pt L3-edge EXAFS, the average coordination number (CN) of PtO bonds was 0.60.9 and of PtPt was 4.34.6 (Table S2). This indicated that atomically dispersed Pt nanoclusters were stabilized by bonding with oxygen atoms of the zeolite framework. In Figure S8, for monometallic Pt@S-1-200, the peak at 2057 cm1 was assigned to linearly bonded CO on unsaturated Pt clusters. An 17 cm1 red shift of the CO stretching frequency for PtZn catalysts demonstrates the formation of a PtZn alloy, resulting in a higher surface electron density of Pt clusters. Meanwhile, the bridge-bonded CO peak was hardly detected, which further verified Pt with a sub-nanometric scale.
No obvious Pt 4f XPS signal appeared in any of the encapsulated zeolites because of Pt species encapsulated in the zeolite. After Ar-ion sputtering, the binding energies of all PtZn catalysts at about 72.8 eV were assigned to the Ptδ+ cation (Figure S9). This could be attributed to the fact that small Pt clusters tend to be oxidized in air and/or be stabilized by bonding with oxygen atoms of the zeolite framework. For Zn LMM Auger XPS, the kinetic energies of all samples were about 986 eV, obviously lower than 990 eV corresponding to bulk ZnnOn species (Figure S10). This could be ascribed to Zn(II) species bonding to the zeolite lattice oxygen. According to the above characterizations, the structures of PtZn species in PtZn@S-1-200 and PtZn@S-1-Fin were similar.
An XPS depth profile could characterize the accessibility of PtZn clusters. After Ar-ion sputtering for 100 s, which corresponds to about 12 nm nominal depth from the MFI zeolite surface, the Pt amount of PtZn@S-1-Fin was 40% higher than that of PtZn@S-1-200 (Table 1). However, the Pt amounts were similar after long sputtering times of 200 and 400 s (Figure S9) and in the overall zeolite measured by ICP-OES (Table S1). The finned zeolite increased the accessibility of active sites, which may be due to the high proportion of external surface area measured by N2 physisorption characterization (Figure S11). The external surface area of PtZn@S-1-Fin was 34 m2/g, obviously higher than that of PtZn@S-1-200 (19 m2/g), whereas the total surface areas of the two samples were almost the same (398 and 395 m2/g).
Table 1. Characteristic Results of PtZn@S-1-Fin and PtZn@S-1-200
sample Pt loading (wt %)a Pt amount near surface (wt %)b Sexternal (m2/g)c
PtZn@S-1-200 0.45 0.28 19
PtZn@S-1-Fin 0.45 0.40 34
aDetermined by ICP-OES.
bMeasured by Ar-ion sputtering XPS for 100 s.
cCalculated from N2 physisorption.
The specific activity was investigated at 600 C with varying space velocities (Figure 3a). Propane conversions of all catalysts were about 49% (near thermodynamic equilibrium) when the WHSV was less than 60 h1. With an increase in WHSV, the specific activity approached its limiting value. The PtZn@S-1-Fin catalyst exhibited a high activity of 17.0 molC3H6 molPt1 s1, which was about 1.5 and 1.7 times higher than those of PtZn@S-1-200 and PtZn@S-1-100, respectively. The catalytic stability of prepared samples was tested at 600 C with WHSV = 12 h1 under a pure propane gas flow (Figure 3b). The initial propane conversions of all samples were about 49%. After 80 h on stream, the propane conversion of PtZn@S-1-Fin was maintained at 45.0% while that of PtZn@S-1-200 was only 34.4%. The propene selectivity of PtZn@S-1-Fin was 97.4%, slightly higher than that of PtZn@S-1-200 (96.7%). This could be ascribed to the short contact time in the finned structure, and the selectivity of ethane was below 2%. The selectivities of methane and ethene were below 1% (Figure S12). After a long-term reaction, the metal particle size and zeolite structure of PtZn@S-1-Fin were almost unchanged and coke deposition was less (Figures S13S15 and Table S3).
Figure 3
Figure 3. (a) Specific activities (molC3H6 molPt1 s1) with different space velocities at 600 C. (b) Propane conversion and propylene selectivity with time on stream. Reaction conditions: T = 600 C, WHSV = 12 h1, P = 1 atm, pure C3H8. (c). Arrhenius plots of prepared samples. (d) Specific activities and deactivation rates for the catalysts in this work and for those reported in other literature. (9,17,18)
Figure 3c shows Arrhenius plots of the as-prepared samples. The activation energies of PDH on PtZn@S-1-Fin (79.6 kJ/mol) and PtZn@S-1-200 (79.5 kJ/mol) were close, indicating their similar PtZn structures. The similar results for the temperature-programmed desorption of propene (C3H6-TPD) and the temperature-programmed surface reaction of propane (C3H8-TPSR) also demonstrated similar structures of the active sites (Figure S16). In comparison, on PtZn@S-1-100 with partially agglomerated Pt sites, a higher activation energy of 91.7 kJ/mol should be overcome. In comparison with PDH catalysts reported in previous literature (Figure 3d), PtZn@S-1-Fin exhibited a quite high specific activity with high stability under different reaction conditions (Figure S17). It was superior to those of state of the art Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts as shown in Table S4, even under harsh conditions (pure propane gas flow without a cofeed of hydrogen).
In conclusion, PtZn@finned zeolite catalysts possess well-crystallized fins with a size of 3060 nm on the surface of the bulk hexagonal crystal. This unique structure ensures a short diffusion length and smooth surface at the same time, which contribute to a large configuration diffusion rate and high surface permeability, as evidenced by IGA characterization. On catalysis by PtZn@S-1-Fin, a highly productive PDH of up to 17.0 molC3H6 molPt1 s1 (WHSV = 360 h1) and a low deactivation constant of 0.0017 h1 (WHSV = 12 h1) were achieved. The metal@finned zeolite structure can be applied to many other heterogeneous reactions suffering from diffusion limitations. This strategy also suggests significant promise for future industrial applications.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 