<DOCUMENT>
Effect of K-promoter use in iron-based plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 into higher value products
In the new field of plasma-catalytic synthesis, iron-based catalysts have been intensively studied but no study was reported on the use of potassium promoter although it is widely used in thermo-catalytic synthesis. In this frame, we study the effect of K-promoter on iron-based plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 into higher value products, through a series of experiments with and without potassium. As expected, K-promoter increases the selectivity of unsaturated hydrocarbons but also that of long-chain oxygenates (C3 + acids and alcohols), by changing the H-adsorption property of the catalyst. Based on this selectivity tuning way, this paper proposes a first process optimization attempt for maximizing at the same time the production of liquid products and the share of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Coproduction of high quality syngas (H2/CO∼2.0), C2 + hydrocarbons and C1 + oxygenates with 5.10% CO2 and 12.65% CH4 conversions, 21.76% liquid selectivity and unsaturated over saturated hydrocarbons ratio close to 1.
1. Introduction
A large number of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as a consequence of fossil fuel consumption are threatening humanity. Confronted with such global environmental concerns, numerous sustainable technologies are under development in order both to replace traditional fossil energy and to reduce CO2 emissions [1]. In this frame, CO2 can be transformed into higher value molecules through different strategies, including CO2 splitting [1], [2], [3], dry reforming [4], [5], CO2 hydrogenation [6], [7], and artificial photosynthesis [8], [9]. Notably, using of CO2 for dry reforming of methane (CH4) which is an abundant and potentially renewable feedstock attracts enormous interest economically and environmentally, since it could not only eliminate two major GHG but also produce valuable chemicals at the same time.
Non-thermal plasmas (NTP), which are generated under strong electric fields, create reactive species (ions, excited species, radicals) near ambient temperature [1], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14]. Among reactive species, excited species (i.e. vibrationally or electronically excited species) play an important role because they lower the activation energy barrier and lead to more efficient global reactions. In NTP, reactions are mainly initiated by an electronic way via free electrons whose temperature is actually much higher than the gas one. The electrons temperature commonly varies from 1 to more than 10 eV. So, activation of highly thermodynamically stable molecules: CO2 (5.5 eV) and CH4 (4.5 eV), could be achieved at low gas temperatures [4]. Compared to conventional thermo-catalysis, plasma-catalysis exhibits substantial benefits in terms of selective activation of reactants due to electron-driven activation, global energy efficiency, and capital expenditures (CAPEX) because of ambient operating conditions and exploitation of multi-synergetic effects.
NTP is widely explored and applied to initiate thermodynamically limited reactions in the utilization of CO2 and CH4 [15]. Plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 generally leads to a mixture composed of syngas and a mixture composed of C1+ oxygenated and C2+ non-oxygenated molecules. Typical gaseous hydrocarbons produced are ethane (C2H6), propane (C3H8), and butane (C4H10) [10], [16]. It is noteworthy that saturated hydrocarbons (C2H6) selectivity is much higher than unsaturated hydrocarbons (C2H4 and C2H2) [10]. This phenomenon might be attributed to the strong reduction and highly reactive atmosphere in plasma. Concerning liquid oxygenates, the production of acetic acid from CO2 and CH4 is one ideal process able to theoretically offer a 100% atom economy. But higher organic acids can be produced by enhancement of C-C bounding. In current reported works on plasma-catalysis, liquid oxygenates mainly include methanol (CH3OH), ethanol (C2H5OH), formaldehyde (HCHO), formic acid (HCOOH), and acetic acid (CH3COOH) but long-chain liquid oxygenates are rarely reported [17], [18], [19]. In our previous study, we directly synthesized liquid chemicals from CO2 and CH4 by using Co/SiO2 and Fe/SiO2 aerogel catalysts in a plasma-catalytic process. We achieved considerable conversion rates at ambient conditions and found that the decrease in CO2/CH4 ratio enhanced the selectivity to acetic acid and hydrocarbons [4].
A potential improvement in product selectivity, which would be meaningful to the valorization of GHG, has caught our attention. When tracing back to previous research, ethane is found to occupy a large proportion of gaseous hydrocarbons while more valuable unsaturated hydrocarbons are in minority in most of the reported works, and this limitation is also found in our previous work. For example, light olefins (e.g. ethene and propene) are the most important starting products in the petrochemical industry which could be used for the production of plastics, rubber, oil, solvents, and other vital chemicals in the chemical industry. Hence, poor selectivity of them in the current plasma-assisted process would more or less restrain its application. Facing such general inadequacy, attempts to improve the fraction of unsaturated hydrocarbons in gas products appear quite attractive from industrial and economic points of view. Taheraslani et al. [20] reported a distribution shift of C2 compounds towards C2H4 in the conversion of methane using a packed DBD reactor and this could be attributed to the properties (e.g. pore size and dielectric constant) of packed materials. The selectivity of C2H2 and C2H4 could reach 18% and 32% respectively in BaTiO3 packed plasma reactor, while only 7% and 6% of C2H2 and C2H4 were obtained in a nonpacked reactor. Such distribution shift of products was also observed in the plasma-assisted dry reforming of methane where hydrocarbons changed from dominant C2H6 to C2H2 and C2H4 over UiO-67 catalyst [21]. These studies show the feasibility of tuning the distribution of hydrocarbon products, the production of unsaturated hydrocarbons for the petrochemical industry in particular, under reactive plasma environment. It is worth mentioning that Argon (Ar) was introduced to the feedstock as a dilution inert gas which can enhance the plasma chemistry in previous studies. The presence of Ar and its excited states, on the one hand, could participate in the formation of intermediates and products, on the other hand, the industrial operation cost and complexity would be greatly increased. Thus, direct synthesis of unsaturated hydrocarbons without Ar assistance is of great importance at scientific and industrial levels. Whereas, we notice that the direct synthesis of added-value hydrocarbons from the two most important greenhouse gases, by using NTP technique, still remains almost blank. Taking these concerns into consideration, we proposed this early-stage research aiming to provide an alternative approach for greenhouse gases utilization.
Reviewing the production of added-value hydrocarbons beyond plasma catalysis, iron-based catalysts are the most commonly catalysts used for olefin production via thermal catalysis while alkali-metal could serve as promoters by changing electronic and basic properties. Iron-based catalysts are widely investigated in CO2 hydrogenation through the modified Fischer-Tropsch synthesis (FTS) route owing to their activity in the Water-Gas-Shift-Reaction (WGSR) and Fischer-Tropsch synthesis [22]. Song et al., reported the production of olefin-rich C2+ hydrocarbons from CO2 hydrogenation using potassium (K) promoted Fe-Cu bimetallic catalysts [23]. The increase of olefins’ selectivity over K promoted catalysts is attributed to the change of surface properties. K decreases the surface H2/CO ratio by suppressing H2 adsorption and greatly improving CO adsorption, consequently, further decreases the hydrogenation activity. [24]. Besides, iron carbide is gradually identified to be the active phase for FTS other than iron oxides, and iron oxides transform into carbides during the CO2 hydrogenation under a H2/CO2 atmosphere [25], [26], [27], [28].
Inspired by this strategy, plasma catalytic direct synthesis based on iron carbides catalyst and alkaline promoters might have promising performance. The major concern is the mutual influence of catalyst and plasma. Catalysts would affect plasma properties which, in turn, could affect solid surface properties. Among the parameters being able to play an influencing role, roughness and porosity of the catalyst could lead to an enhancement of the local electrical field which partially determines the energy of the resulting micro-discharges. The intensity and density of micro-discharges then drive local surface temperature by the production of hotspots at the interface and change surface kinetics. On so-called hotspots, the temperature of local regions stands in sharp contrast to that of plasma where non-thermal plasma is operated near or slightly above room conditions. Local plasma chemistry would be modified accompanying the initiation of thermal-catalytic effects. Thus, each material will have its own plasma-surface interaction depending on many parameters. Although the plasma catalysis association exhibits a lot of potential advantages for the selective synthesis, the function of plasma, that of catalyst as well as the nature of the interactions between them (physical or chemical) still remain unclear for the moment.
Herein, this work is focusing on the direct synthesis of such high added-value hydrocarbons (e.g. ethene and ethyne) in plasma surroundings. We prepared a series of iron-based catalysts in this work and pioneered the selective synthesis of high added-value chemicals in DBD plasma-catalytic reactor. The effects of Fe species and K promoter on the catalytic performance are evaluated in detail. The plasma-catalytic process is also demonstrated by analyzing and the plasma physical parameters and chemical adsorptions on the surface. Furthermore, the catalyst’s stability is illustrated to show the possible industrial application. In addition, optical emission spectra (OES) profile further exhibits the excited species, radicals, molecules and atoms in the plasma phase.
2. Experimental section
2.1. Catalyst preparation
The method used in this work is developed according to the reported metal−organic framework (MOF) mediated synthesis approach [27], [28]. Fe-based catalysts were prepared using sol-gel method. In a typical synthesis, 4.068 g citric acid, and 5.792 g iron (III) chloride were dissolved in 40 g deionized water (DI water) at 293 K, and 20.8 g tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) was added to that solution drop by drop in 20 min. The combined solution was stirred at 293 K overnight and then sealed and aged at 333 K for 5 h to form the transparent gel. The precursor was dried in oven at 333 K and calcined at 673 K in nitrogen atmosphere for 8 h. The synthesized catalyst was named as Fe/C-SiO2. Potassium (K) modified Fe-based catalysts were synthesized using similar method. Potassium carbonate, citric acid, and iron (III) chloride were first dissolved in 40 g DI water. Then TEOS was added to the solution and treated under the same conditions. Obtained catalyst was named as K-Fe/C-SiO2 after calcined at 673 K in nitrogen atmosphere.
This one-pot sol-gel method approach provides an economical way to produce metal catalysts when it is compared to reported MOF mediated synthesis approach. Metal nanoparticles are embedded in the carbon matrix in order to get a well dispersed carbon-metal sites in the materials. Thus, iron catalysts were prepared by following a sequential synthesis route (e.g. Precursor → K-Fe/C-SiO2 → K-Fe-SiO2) in order to minimize any unexpected altering effect resulting from this method.
For preparation of Fe-SiO2 and K-Fe-SiO2, the materials obtained previously (Fe/C-SiO2 and K-Fe/C-SiO2) were treated at 873 K in an oxidizing atmosphere (i.e. air) for 6 h in order to remove carbon then treated at the same temperature in a reducing atmosphere (i.e. 5%H2/N2) for 10 h. After carbon removing, the nominal Fe loading amount is around 20 wt%. The defect of this method is to give poor dispersed Fe-SiO2 and K-Fe-SiO2 materials because of Fe and K-Fe particles aggregation at high temperature. Despite the poor quality of the carbon-free catalysts made by this technic, the method has been chosen in this study to show an effect of potassium addition in non-optimal conditions. The method will have to be improved afterwards or an alternative will have to be used to move towards better quality carbon-free catalysts.
2.2. Catalyst evaluation
As shown in Fig. 1, plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 was performed on the fixed bed dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) reactor described in previous literatures [4]. It mainly consisted of a quartz tubular reactor, a power supply, a cold trap condenser and products analysis system. A 150 mm stainless-steel coils wrapped around the quartz tube (10 mm O.D. ✕ 7 mm I.D.) was used as ground electrode, while an aluminum rod (2 mm O.D.) placed in the quartz tube was used as the high voltage electrode. Two Teflon caps were installed on the aluminum rod to fix catalysts in the discharge area and keep concentricity of the electrode and the tube. A thermocouple was placed near the exit where the reactants pass through plasma area to detect gas temperature. The power supply based on a transformation chain technology and comprised of a signal function generator (HP 33120 A), an audio amplifier (IMG Stageline STA-1400) and a transformer, generates desired peak-to-peak voltage between high voltage electrode and ground electrode. The flow rates at the inlet before the discharge and outlet after the discharge were measured by a soap-film flowmeter.
Download : Download high-res image (215KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Experimental setup.
In order to calculate the discharge power, a capacitor (3.9 nF) was connected in series with the reactor and two voltage probes were applied to measure the voltage of the plasma reactor and the capacitor which will be used to calculate the input energy by means of Lissajous method firstly introduced by Manley in 1943 [29]. The applied voltage, temperature and pressure data were detected via a digital oscilloscope (HP Hewlett Packard 54615B), a type K thermocouple and a pressure probe respectively, then recorded on a computer via a Keysight 34970 A Data Acquisition unit. The liquid products were condensed in a cold trap, separated by a SUPEL Q PLOT (Inside diameter ✕ Length: 0.32 mm ✕ 30 m) column and analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometer/flame ionization detector (GCMS/FID, GCMS-QP2010, Shimadzu) offline while gas products were analyzed online by a micro-gas chromatography (Micro-GC Fusion). GCMS was calibrated using a standard liquid sample (20 vol% of methanol, ethanol, acetic acid, acetone, and water) to quantify the main products [4]. Micro-GC Fusion is equipped with two thermal conductivity detectors (TCD) in two channels. In the first channel, H2, CH4 and CO are separated by a Rt Molsieve 5 Å (Inside diameter ✕ Length: 0.25 mm ✕ 10 m, column temperature: 323 K) column and are detected with Argon carrier gas, while CO2 and gaseous hydrocarbons are separated by a Rt Q Bond (Inside diameter ✕ Length: 0.25 mm ✕ 12 m, column temperature: 323 K) column and detected with Helium carrier gas.
In a typical reaction, 3.0 g catalyst (granule size: 1.0 mm) was packed in the discharge zone (5.30 mL) where the discharge length and gap were 150 mm and 3.5 mm respectively between two Teflon plugs. Prior to reaction, CO2 was introduced into the reactor first to exhaust air and then CO2 and CH4 were introduced into the fix-bed reactor with a specific molar ratio of CO2/CH4 = 1 for 2 h. The flow rate of mixed reactant gas is fixed at 30 mL/min. In this work, the peak-to-peak voltage varied from 5.2 kV to 6.0 kV and the signal frequency was fixed at 4.0 kHz. Experiments are repeated 3 times and the mean values are taken. After the reaction, conversion rate of the reactants and the products selectivity would be calculated as follows [4]:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
As the carbon deposition is negligible, carbon deposition is estimated by TGA analysis of fresh and used catalysts (Fig. S2) after the study of TOS behaviour. The selectivity of liquid oxygenates is calculated as:
(6)
(7)
where x is the number of carbon atoms in the CxHyOz molecule.
Two important ratios of gaseous products are defined as:
(8)
(9)
(10)
The specific input energy (SIE) is calculated as the following formula:
(11)
The energy efficiency (EE) of CO2 and CH4 conversion (mmol/kJ) are defined as:
(12)
(13)
2.3. Plasma parameters calculation
The plasma parameters, including the average electric field strength, the reduced electric field (E/N) and the mean electron energy, are calculated by using an equivalent electrical circuit model of the DBD reactor described in Mei et al. paper [30]. Packed catalysts have a great influence on the physical characteristics of the discharge and those effects are for the moment too complex to be fully described. Hence, Fig. S3 shows a simplified model for the packed DBD reactor to determine the voltage across the gas and different dielectric constant (ε) of the solid catalysts. The distorted gas phase and discrete solid region are equivalently considered as two plate capacitors in this model. So, according to the equivalent electrical circuit and the equivalent gap thicknesses of the gas (dg) and catalysts (dc), voltage across the gas (Ug) could be calculated by the equation reported in [31]:
(14)
where the Ugap is the voltage across the gap which includes the gas and packed catalysts, εg is the relative dielectric constant of gas reactants, εc is the relative dielectric constant of the packed catalysts. More details on the derivation of formula could be found in published literature [30], [31].
The electron energy distribution function (F0) of CO2/CH4 discharge is calculated with BOLSIG+ according to the method developed in [32] and described in the supplementary material.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Characterizations of catalysts
First, we investigated some basic physical properties of the catalysts using technics described in supplementary material. By using N2 adsorption–desorption characterizations, Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface areas, average pore diameter distribution and pore volume of catalysts are compared in Table 1, and specific surface areas of SiO2 calculated from the linear part of plot reach 631.09 m2 g−1. The N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms (Fig. S4a) of SiO2, classified according to IUPAC, is type IV - H2 isotherms with a hysteresis loop, which indicates the mesoporous structure of the catalysts. The average pore diameter distributions of all samples are calculated by using the Barrett–Joyner–Halenda (BJH) method and the desorption branch of the nitrogen isotherms. The modification of iron species lowers BET surface area to 510.08 m2 g−1 and the existence of K promoter further decrease BET surface area.
Table 1. Physical properties of fresh catalysts and used K-Fe/C-SiO2.
Sample Surface areaa (m2/g) Average pore diameterb (nm) Pore volumeb (cm3/g) Average metal particle sizec (nm)
SiO2 631.09 3.2 0.50 -
Fe-SiO2 510.08 4.2 0.54 2.69
K-Fe-SiO2 169.34 13.8 0.23 2.86
Fe/C-SiO2 421.82 4.5 0.47 2.71
K-Fe/C-SiO2 330.54 3.7 0.31 2.65
Used K-Fe/C-SiO2 303.76 3.8 0.29 2.73
a
Calculated based on Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method.
b
Determined by Barrett-Joyner-Halenda method via N2 desorption data.
c
Estimated by TEM images.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of as-synthesized iron-based catalysts are presented in Fig. 2. A broad diffraction peak at 2θ ≈ 20 ° - 30 ° observed in all the samples is ascribed to amorphous silica species. The diffraction peaks at 2θ = 25.0 °, 31.6 °, 51.3 ° are attributed to (111), (031), (222) facets of FeO+SiO2 species. The ion-based species in Fe-SiO2 and K-Fe-SiO2 are identified to be 2(FeO)SiO2 according to International Centre for Diffraction Data (ICDD): 00–011–0262. The broad and low intensity peaks suggest that metal species are highly dispersed and exhibit low crystallinity. For K promoted catalyst, K species are identified to be KCl according to the diffraction peaks at 28.3 ° and 40.5 °. XRD patterns of Fe/C-SiO2 and K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts also suggest poor crystallinity, small particle size and well dispersity of iron species.
Download : Download high-res image (134KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. XRD patterns of fresh catalysts (a) SiO2, (b) Fe-SiO2, (c) K-Fe-SiO2, (d) Fe/C-SiO2, (e) K-Fe/C-SiO2 (■: amorphous silica species, ▲: FeO+SiO2 species, •: KCl species).
N2 adsorption–desorption characterizations show high surface areas and special pore structures in iron-based and modified catalysts. However, characterization of K-Fe-SiO2 catalyst suggests that there are specific processes in the synthetic procedure that make surface structures of this material unique. The dramatically lower surface area of K-Fe-SiO2 catalyst compared to all the other materials and the prominent KCl peaks in the XRD of this material suggest that K is not well distributed throughout the material and is actually agglomerated in large clusters on the material, unlike the analogous K-Fe/C-SiO2. Hence, SEM images of catalysts and their multi-element EDS mapping spectra are obtained to elucidate the surface structures.
SEM micrograph obtained from Fe-SiO2 and K-Fe-SiO2 catalysts are shown in Fig. S5 (magnification = 25000 and 100000), in which the surface structures of the catalysts are compared. The mesoporous structures are constructed in bulk Fe-SiO2 catalyst and few of macro-pore is observed (Fig. S5 a and b). Contrarily, mesoporous structures are damaged and more macro-porous structures form due to the addition of K (Fig. S5 c and d). The dramatical decreasing of surface area of K-Fe-SiO2 catalyst is attributed to the low porosity of modified catalyst. To further elucidate the relation between structure and surface area, the SEM images of Fe/C-SiO2 and K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts are compared in Fig. S6. It is clear to find that the surface structures are altered after the modification of K species, nevertheless, mesoporous structures are well maintained (Fig. S6 c and d).
The surface properties are further examined by EDS where the distribution of Si, O, Fe and K in K-Fe-SiO2 catalyst are shown in Fig. S7. In the EDS spectrum, besides the well dispersed nanoparticles, a form of aggregation is meanwhile observed. The large clusters would lead to a substantial surface modification and so influence the catalytic performance. Fig. S8 displays the distribution of Si, O, Fe, C and K in K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst. On the contrary, no aggregated large clusters are observed which indicates the well dispersion of promoters in the catalyst. This result also explains the slight decrease of surface areas for K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst compared to K-Fe-SiO2 catalyst. The well dispersed promoters and well sustained mesoporous structures together lead to the special performance of K-Fe-SiO2 catalyst in plasma assisted dry reforming.
Fig. 3 shows the TEM images and particle size distribution of synthesized catalysts via sol-gel method. According to the TEM images, iron species are all well dispersed and exhibit a mixed phase. The nano-particles are uniform and the average size of as-prepared catalysts is estimated to be 2.65 ± 0.4 nm (calculated by counting the diameter of more than 200 random particles) which is similar to previous research [33], [34]. The carbon matrix around Fe nanoparticles is assigned to be epsilon carbides (ε′-Fe2.2C). The pyrolysis of Fe precursor is not easy and the formed species are highly depended on the temperatures [34]. From 300° to 900°C, the Fe3O4, FeO, α-Fe, epsilon carbides (ε-Fe2.2C), Hägg carbides (χ-Fe5C2) and cementite (θ-Fe3C) occupied the predominant position successively. At the typical preparation temperature (400 °C), highly dispersed ε-Fe2.2C are the main carbide phase. Compared with them, we manage to produce Fe-based catalysts with a similar particle size and avoid the using of complex and expensive reagents. Due to poor crystallinity, small particle size and well dispersity of the iron specie, the lattice fringes of related crystals are inconspicuous. The TEM result further confirmed the high dispersion of iron species and small particle size.
Download : Download high-res image (960KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. TEM image of (a1) Fe-SiO2, (b1) K-Fe-SiO2, (c1) Fe/C-SiO2, (d1) K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst; HRTEM image of (a2) Fe-SiO2, (b2) K-Fe-SiO2, (c2) Fe/C-SiO2, (d2) K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst; Particle size distribution of (a3) Fe-SiO2, (b3) K-Fe-SiO2, (c3) Fe/C-SiO2, (d3) K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst.
XPS is further performed to characterize the surface chemical states of K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts, and Fig. S9 represents the Fe 2p XPS spectra. The peaks at 709.5, 711.0 and 708.2 eV confirm the presence of Fe2+, Fe3+ and metallic carbides [35], [36]. C 1 s spectrum (Fig. S10) shows a main component at 284.5 eV, 286.5 eV, 289.0 eV for C-C, ­C­O and -CO. It is worth mentioning that the binding energy of some transition metallic carbides locate in the range of 283.1–283.9 eV [37]. The binding energy appears at 283.8 eV further confirms the metallic carbides species. This indicates that, in this work, the pyrolysis of Fe precursor at 400 °C, similar to the pyrolysis of Basolite F300 (Fe-BTC), creates a reducing environment which would reduce Fe (III) into Fe (II), iron carbides and etc. [35], [37] K 2p spectra indicates the presence of K+ owing to the doublets at 292.7 eV and 295.5 eV. Fe 2p3/2 binding energy (Fig. S11) for K-Fe-SiO2 is observed at 710.8 eV which indicate the Fe2+ in FeO+SiO2 species (fayalite) [38], [39], [40]. This result is in agreement with species clarified by XRD data.
3.2. Plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4
3.2.1. Effect of catalysts
As one of the foremost parts of plasma system, the presence of catalyst could lead to the change of physical parameters and chemical properties in the system, which will have a great impact on the catalytic activity. Accordingly, in the first section, we evaluated the performances of plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 over various catalysts and compared them to the process without catalyst in a fixed bed DBD reactor. Fig. 4 exhibits the conversion rate of reactants, main products selectivity, the ratio of key products and detailed products distribution which demonstrates the superiorities of catalysts.
Download : Download high-res image (133KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Conversion and products selectivity of plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 over different catalysts. Reaction conditions: Peak-to-peak voltage = 5.1–6.0 kV, Input power = 2.4–2.6 W, Frequency = 4.0 kHz, Flow rate = 30 mL/min, CO2/CH4 ratio = 1/1, Catalysts granule size = 1.0 mm.
The presence of catalysts would alter plasma properties (Fig. S12) and would consequently change input power when the same peak-to-peak voltage is applied. Thus, the peak-to-peak voltage is adjusted between 5.2 and 6.0 kV in order to keep the same input energy. By this way, input power is fixed in the range 2.4–2.6 W. Table S1 summarizes the details of energy consumption, SIE, energy efficiency of CO2 and CH4 over different catalysts. As Lissajous Fig. (Fig. S12) shows, the introduction of catalysts alters plasma properties and indicates the transition of filamentary discharges into surface discharges. As a result, the energy efficiencies of CO2 and CH4 fluctuate around 0.15 mmol/kJ and 0.40 mmol/kJ respectively. Plasma inevitably heats the reactor due to energy accumulation. Nevertheless, the temperature of the gas in all of the tests is around 323–333 K which is insufficient to initiate the reaction of CO2 and CH4 thermally. Hence, we consider that the potential thermo-catalytic effect does not contribute to the conversion of CO2 and CH4.
As shown in Fig. 4, catalysts exhibit synergistic effects during plasma-catalytic process and considerably tune the selectivity of H2, CO and liquid oxygenates while decrease the conversion rate slightly. The conversion rate is influenced by many parameters such as the intensity of electric field, the spatial distribution of discharges, the specific surface area of the catalytic material, the residence time and all the coupling parameters. As an example, the plasma volume which plays the role of intermediate species reservoir in the process is reduced by the presence of packed catalysts and inert material. Under the same GHG treatment capacity (30 mL/min), the conversion rate over inert material and catalysts is changed by plasma characteristic (e.g., electric filed strengthen and the change of discharges) and shortened residence time of reactants as well. On the other hand, hydrogen adsorption capabilities (clarified in the following paragraph) on iron species could improve CO2 conversion. So, an optimum should be found in order to produce enough intermediates and to have a large number of catalytic sites. More in-depth studies are required to elucidate these points.
Compared to plasma-only process, K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst raises the selectivity of liquid oxygenates from 4.22% to 21.76% and suppress the formation of CO. Consequently, H/C ratio (representing the molar ratio of H2 to CO) increases up to around 2.0 (Fig. 5a) when K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst was packed in the reactor. This ratio is the most desirable gas composition for F-T synthesis. Apart from H/C ratio, the selectivity of added-value unsaturated hydrocarbons (e.g., ethylene) is enhanced due to K promoter. GC spectrum (Fig. S13) demonstrates the distribution of gaseous hydrocarbons over different catalysts. Unsaturated hydrocarbons products are negligible in the plasma-only process while K promoted catalysts further improve the unsaturated hydrocarbons production. For Fe-SiO2 and Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts, the U/S ratio (represent the molar ratio of ethylene and acetylene to ethane) is 0.19 and 0.07 respectively, nevertheless the U/S ratios rise to 0.35 and 0.90 using K-Fe-SiO2 and K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts.
Download : Download high-res image (278KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Effect of catalysts on the plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4. (a) Selectivity of gaseous hydrocarbons and (b) Selectivity of liquid oxygenates over different catalysts. Reaction conditions: Peak-to-peak voltage = 5.1–6.0 kV, Input power = 2.4–2.6 W, Frequency = 4.0 kHz, Flow rate = 30 mL/min, CO2/CH4 ratio = 1/1, Catalysts granule size = 1.0 mm. (Others a: including propionic, butyric and valeric acids, and alcohols containing more than 2 carbon atoms).
It is essential to mention that Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst produced more CO and less HC than that of Fe-SiO2. A possible explanation could be the enhancement of CO2 conversion compared to CH4 conversion over the Fe species clarified by XPS. The increase of CO2 conversion is attributed to the surface defects over iron carbide (in Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst) where C-O bonds in CO2 become weaker [42], [43]. On the other hand, high H2 adsorption capabilities also leads to the increase of CO2 conversion by promoting the hydrogenation reactions. H2 adsorption is inhibited by K promoter in K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst, leading to a decrease of CO selectivity.
One interesting thing to mention is the significant influence of the promoter on the products selectivity when the catalyst contains carbon (Fe/C-SiO2 vs K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts), while it is not the case when the catalyst does not contain carbon. The K addition in Fe-SiO2 seems to have a negligible effect on the products selectivity. This is attributed to the bad dispersion of the potassium in K-Fe-SiO2 catalyst, probably due to the preparation process operating at high temperature. Indeed, EDS and XRD reveal an aggregation of clusters at the surface of the material. This poor dispersion explains the weak effect of promoter addition on the selectivity tuning with carbon free materials prepared by high temperature process.
GCMS analysis (Fig. S14) shows that the liquid products mainly include methanol, ethanol, propanol, formic acid, acetic acid and other long-chain oxygenates (contains propionic acid, butyric acid, valeric acid, and alcohols containing more than 2 carbon atoms). Compared to the process only combining plasma and SiO2 catalysts, iron-based catalysts also promote the formation of acetic acid (from 1.96% to 12.97%), especially enhance the selectivity of long-chain organic acid (from 1.67% to 7.35%). Those synergistic effects could be attributed to the enhancement of the local electric field, formation of surface discharge, the strong sorption behavior of the catalysts and the catalytic ability of iron-based catalysts. The metal sites in catalyst might be beneficial to the adsorption of CH4 and excited species. The high combination rate of *COOH and *CH results in the high selectivity of acetic acid and longer-chain acid over metal catalysts. Even though, the liquid selectivity increases, compared with SiO2, by around 11% when is K-Fe/C-SiO2 is packed, it is still significant because of the enhanced acetic acid and unsaturated hydrocarbons selectivity.
The role of the catalysts in plasma process remains unclear in current research stage. Plasma physical parameters and chemical adsorptions are supposed to be altered around the catalysts, so, both of them are investigated to reveal the catalysts’ function in plasma-catalysis. Before all else, the average electric field strength, the reduced electric field (E/N) and the mean electron energy are calculated by using an equivalent electrical circuit model [30]. The effect of packed catalysts on those plasma parameters are summarized in Table 2. Compared to plasma process, the packed catalysts enhance the electric field strength of the CO2 (ε = 1.6)/CH4 (ε = 1.06) gas mixture discharge. More notable enhancement of the electric field strength is observed when catalyst having a higher dielectric constant is packed. The result is in line with a previous reported work [30]. High local curvature, accumulation of charges and polarization effects could contribute to the field enhancement when porous catalysts are packed [15], [41]. Packing catalyst with high dielectric constant is in favor of the formation of local filamentary discharges between the packed beads which could create more reactive species. The local electric field strength near the catalyst surface, especially near the contact points, are strengthened [42].
Table 2. Effect of packed catalysts on the average electric field strength, the reduced electric field and the mean electron energy.
Catalysts Electric field strength (kV/cm) Reduced electric field (Td) Mean electron energy (eV)
None 13.00 48.51 2.45
SiO2 24.55 91.59 3.87
Fe-SiO2 28.56 106.58 4.19
K-Fe-SiO2 28.23 105.32 4.17
Fe/C-SiO2 36.38 135.75 4.70
K-Fe/C-SiO2 (1 mm) 36.14 134.84 4.71
K-Fe/C-SiO2 (2 mm) 29.26 109.20 4.24
Fig. 6 shows the electron energy distribution function as a function of the electron energy when different catalysts are packed. As one can see, the mean electron energy, which is crucial in plasma-catalysis, is increased by the presence of the packing materials in discharges. A low electron energy could promote the formation of saturated hydrocarbons while a high electron energy could be in favor of the formation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [21]. In the K-Fe/C-SiO2 enhanced electric field, the dehydrogenations (C2H6 + e → C2H4 + H2 + e and C2H4 + e → C2H2 + H2 + e) are promoted due to higher electron energy. Those changes are critical to the distribution of dominant products.
Download : Download high-res image (108KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. The electron energy distribution function in CO2/CH4 (mole ratio: 1/1) gas discharges packing with different catalysts.
Besides physical properties in plasma environment, chemical adsorptions properties also contribute to the hydrogenation and dehydrogenation process, consequently, they are analyzed by H2-Temperature-programmed desorption (H2-TPD) which are carried out on a home-made apparatus reported in literatures [43], [44]. Fig. 7 compares H2-TPD profiles of selected catalysts. The result indicates that H2 adsorption capacity decreased markedly after the modification of K which is in line with the reported H2 chemisorption analysis in previous literature [27]. Two hydrogen adsorption peaks indicate different types of absorbing sites over catalyst. Weak H physisorption at lower temperature is ascribed to the H species adsorbed on the metallic iron surface while H2 chemisorption on carburized catalysts occurred at higher temperature. The weak and the strong hydrogen adsorption sites are also observed on carburized iron catalyst surface at lower (167 ℃) and higher (506 ℃) temperature respectively [45]. Brucker et. al., [46] claimed that the adsorption of hydrogen on a ‘carbonated’ Fe (100) surface led to the formation of CH species which was considered to be the most stable surface species on carburized catalysts. Due to the decomposition of surface CH, Zhang et. al., [24] reported H2 desorption peaks on carburized catalysts appear at range of 250–500 ℃. The amount of hydrogen adsorption decreased sharply after K promotion while the chemisorption of CO is improved. We surmise that the surface environment of modified catalysts with a lower H2 coverage is less conducive to hydrogenation but benefits to the CO conversion. Thus, due to the coverage of activity sites on the catalyst, K could tune the adsorption properties on the surface which restricts the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [23]. Hence, under the coordination of surface K promoter which might restrict the hydrogenation rate, the fractions of unsaturated hydrocarbons are significantly increased.
Download : Download high-res image (89KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. H2-TPD profiles of the Fe/C-SiO2 and K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts.
In a short summary, compared with plasma-only process and SiO2, iron-based catalysts, notably alkali metal promoted catalysts, exhibit superior catalytic activity and selectivity in plasma environment. K-Fe/C-SiO2 is the optimized catalysts to produce added-value hydrocarbons and liquid oxygenates in plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4. The addition of K is beneficial for the formation of unsaturated hydrocarbons and suppresses paraffins selectivity. Although the conversion for CH4 and CO2 are around 15% and 5% respectively, they could be improved by increasing input energy, optimizing catalysts and choosing an appropriate plasma configuration. Those efforts are currently investigated from an industrial point of view. Considering the wide application of multi-stage reactor in chemical industry, it is possible to extend it to the plasma-catalytic technique. Hence, a multi-stage plasma-catalytic reactor would be a useful configuration in which unreacted feedstock from previous stage would feed to the next stage [47]. Each stage would be maintained at suitable conditions in order to produce added-value chemicals with high selectivity and the conversion rates reach the desired values after the last stage.
3.2.2. Effect of granule size
The characteristics of packed catalysts, including their components, dielectric constants and granule size, affect the performance of plasma-catalysts by changing electric field, types of discharge, physicochemical properties and the formation of hot spots in DBD reactor [17]. Bogaerts [48] reported that more contact points were formed and local electric field was enhanced around smaller spheres in the plasma. Therefore, that resulted in more reactive plasma. As shown in Fig. S15, catalysts with different sizes (1.0 mm and 2.0 mm) result in distinct distribution of catalyst particles in the reactor and further change the performance of K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst. As shown in Fig. S15, the selectivity of H2 and oxygenates are slightly decreased due to larger volume without catalyst. For the gaseous and liquid products distribution, larger contact area of packed catalyst (1 mm) enhances the formation of added-value hydrocarbons and the combination of *CHx and *COOH which contribute to higher selectivity of organic acid. Thus, packed catalysts with proper granule size, 1 mm in this work, is preferred to optimize plasma dry reforming.
In order to interpret the connection of catalyst granule size and its performance, subsequently, the variation of plasma physical parameters caused by different particle size was elucidated using equivalent electrical circuit model. For comparing different granule sizes, the equivalent gap thicknesses of gas and catalysts are determined by the volume fractions after packing. The volume fraction of catalyst decreases from 0.69 to 0.56 when catalyst with a large size (2 mm) is packed, and such decreased catalyst volume results in the increasing of equivalent gap thicknesses of the gas. As shown in Table 2 and Fig. 8, the mean electron energy and the electric field around the catalyst is strengthen when smaller catalyst is loaded. It results in an increase of unsaturated hydrocarbons selectivity due to a higher dehydrogenation rate. The catalyst with smaller size also provides more interface between catalyst and plasma which is beneficial for surface reactions.
Download : Download high-res image (75KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. The electron energy distribution function in CO2/CH4 (mole ratio: 1/1) gas discharges packing with different size of catalysts.
3.2.3. Time-on-stream (TOS)
The stability and persistent activity of the catalysts make future industrial applications possible. The chemical activity of the plasma environment is at the same time favorable to the production of intermediate active species playing an important role in heterogeneous chemistry but also to the co-production of some powerful oxidants or reductants able to affect chemically or physically the catalytic surface. For this consideration, we carried out the catalyst’s life-time test over 9 h to ensure that catalyst keeps reactive when exposed to the plasma surrounding. We characterized these characteristics and demonstrated the promising application prospect of the selected catalyst by testing the time-on-stream (TOS) behavior. TOS behavior (Fig. 9) shows that K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst exhibits decent catalytic stability in the plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 over 9 h. The characterization of used catalysts exhibits that the structures and properties of catalysts are negligibly changed after plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4. Catalyst keeps stable at typical reaction conditions with the CO2 conversion rate and CH4 conversion rate maintaining steadily between 4.08% and 5.85% and 12.18–14.32% respectively. However, the selectivity of H2, CO and hydrocarbons exhibits a variation with the time on stream. At the initial stage, the H/C ratio and U/S ratio in the gaseous products raise from 1.46 and 0.31–2.09 and 0.90 respectively in half an hour. Then, at the steady stage, they are gradually remained around 0.87 and 2.18 respectively. Based on the catalyst’s TOS behavior and characterization, it is proved that K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst is beneficial for syngas production with desired H/C ratio and unsaturated hydrocarbons with considerable activity and stability.
Download : Download high-res image (112KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Time-on-stream profiles of plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 over K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst. Reaction conditions: Peak-to-peak voltage = 6.0 kV, Input power = 2.4 W, Frequency = 4.0 kHz, Flow rate = 30 mL/min, CO2/CH4 ratio = 1/1, Catalysts granule size = 1.0 mm.
3.2.4. Comparison
As shown in Table 3, the performance of plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 are compared to previous literatures. In most of reported works, it is essential to note that plasma-catalytic process seems not to be in favor of ethylene and added-value syngas having a suitable H/C ratio for FTS. But K promoted catalysts as explored in this work is able to directly synthesize unsaturated hydrocarbons, to increase H2/CO ratio and to enhance the formation of long-chain oxygenates which are more valuable and conducive to industrial applications. The total energy efficiencies (EECH4 + EECO2) are also found to be similar to most of reported values in previous works. Considering the increase of products selectivity, we believe that the plasma-catalytic process in this work shows a potential for future industrial application.
Table 3. Comparison of plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4.
Catalyst CO2/CH4 Power (W) Conversion (%) U/S H2/CO EE (mmol/kJ) Liquid oxygenates Ref
CO2 CH4
Empty Cell
Empty Cell
None 1:1 9.71 29.0 44.0 0.03 0.81 0.72 negligible [4]
Pt/γ-Al2O3 1:1 10 12.6 17.3 - - - Acetic acid, Methanol, Ethanol, Acetone, HCHO [10]
NiCe1C 1:1 40 53.7 55.6 0.1 0.98 0.59 - [49]
Ni/Al2O3 2:3 16 19.6 27.2 ≈ 0.01 1.96 0.56 - [50]
NiGa/NF 1:1 25 8.5 16.0 ≈ 0.06 ≈ 0.92 0.12 Methanol, Ethanol, C3H8O, Formic acid, C3H6O2 [51]
UiO-67 1:1a 11 39.0 52.0 1.29 0.85 - - [36]
K-Fe-SiO2 1:1 2.37 5.17 15.34 0.35 1.48 0.58 Formic acid, Acetic acid, C3+ acid, Methanol, Ethanol This work
K-Fe/C-SiO2 1:1 2.35 5.09 12.65 0.90 2.39 0.51 This work
a
Diluted CH4 and CO2 (5000 ppm CH4 and 5000 ppm CO2 in Argon balance)
An improvement of C2H2/C2H4 distribution in the products was also achieved by plasma-assisted dry reforming of methane by using UiO-67 catalyst in [21]. In this interesting work, the excited Argon initiates the dissociation of the reactants while UiO-67 catalyst tunes the products distribution by promotion of dehydrogenation reactions. The ratio of unsaturated hydrocarbons over saturated hydrocarbons went up to 1.29. Nonetheless, the utilization of Argon diluent and low concentration of reactants could more or less restrict the industrial applications.
In our work, a significant improvement of C2H2 and C2H4 selectivity is achieved without using expensive diluent and complex catalysts. Even though the result is not capable to be applied in the chemical industrial immediately, it does provide an attracting approach for future studying.
3.3. Reaction pathway
3.3.1. OES analysis
OES is used to elucidate the spectral characteristics of the homogenous reactions taking place in the plasma and the heterogeneous reactions taking place on catalysts surface. Fig. S17 shows that the main numerous activated species in the emission spectra of plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 includes CO2+, CO, CH, C2 and Hα. As ground electrode is in air atmosphere, pattern (a) displays the emission spectra of air without catalyst and reactant at 6.0 kV. In the background, N2 molecular emission is in the range of 300–400 nm and there are no emission signals of CO2 and CH4. CO2+(A 2Π → X 2Π) transition peaks observed at 353.2 nm indicate that CO2 is efficiently excited in non-thermal plasma. Notably, CO (b 3Σ → a 3Π) and CO (B 1Σ → A 1Π) Angstrom bands are in high intensity, proving that CO radicals is one of the key intermediates in DBD plasma reactor which results in high selectivity of CO (Fig. 4). Except for CO Angstrom bands, CH (A 2∆ → X 2Π), C2 swan bands and Hα atomic lines driven from CH4 dissociation also are detected and further confirm the highly reactive plasma environment. A small peak centered around 777.5 nm is O atomic line due to the splitting of CO2. Whereas, the peaks, compared to plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 without catalysts, are less intense when K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalysts is packed. This phenomenon is consistent with previous works. [11] Filamentary (FM) discharge become weak while surface ionization wave (SIW) discharge is formed. Besides, the adsorption of gaseous radicals (including CO2+, CO, CH) on the catalysts is another essential reason to dim the plasma reaction.
3.3.2. Reaction pathway
Taking account of species observed by OES, enhanced electric field and surface adsorbed molecules, we proposed a reaction pathway for plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 which are illustrated in Fig. 10. It should be pointed out that reaction pathways are not only determined by homogeneous reactions in the plasma phase and heterogeneous reactions on the catalytic surface considered separately, but also by the plasma-catalyst synergy itself which impose the state of the interface, particularly presence of hotspots. The formation of hotspots (local high temperature surface regions) plays a role in the determination of products selectivity. Indeed, the thermal influence on the reaction paths over iron carbide and K has been widely demonstrated in thermal catalysis [25], [26], [27], [28] and certainly plays a role on the products distribution tuning in non-thermal plasma catalysis. High temperature being generally favorable to high U/S products in thermo-catalysis, the hotspots density of the medium could act on the nature of the major products.
Download : Download high-res image (89KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Reaction mechanisms proposed for plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4.
From catalytic side, it is obvious that addition of promoters can modify adsorption rates and heterogeneous reactions, so changing the role playing by the catalyst in the reaction chain. In the plasma phase, free electrons obtain energy from the intense electric field, then excite and dissociate CO2 and CH4, initiating reactions which will end at the plasma-catalyst interface [4]. Dissociation of CO2 will produce CO and O while CH4 will be dehydrogenated and will create H and CHx radicals. Then, the conversion can continue either in plasma phase or in adsorbed phase at the catalytic surface. For example, C2 dehydrogenation (ex. C2H6 + e → C2H4 + H2 + e via C2H5, and C2H4 + e → C2H2 + H2 + e) is promoted in gas phase [21]. But it was also shown in a previous work that formation of C2H5 could serve as a key process for the formation of C3H8 and C2H6 by heterogeneous reactions [52]. K-modified surface could decrease the chemisorption of H2 and so slow-down alkene and alkyne hydrogenation [27]. In this case, the inhibition of the back reaction from C2H4 into C2H5 over the catalyst possibly leads to the increase of unsaturated hydrocarbons selectivity in the process. Hence, we propose two possible reasons which can explain the selective synthesis of unsaturated hydrocarbons: (i) formation of hotspots by local strengthening of electric field due to the influence of catalyst’s surface state on the plasma properties which can boost relevant homogeneous reactions (e.g. dehydrogenation) thanks to a more intense energy input, (ii) competitive adsorption disfavoring the re-hydrogenation of the intermediate products at the surface of the K-modified catalyst.
For acetic acid, two possible mechanisms are widely studied [10]. An acetyl radical (CH3CO) is formed by the combination of CO and CH3 radicals. Then it is further combined with OH to form CH3COOH. Meanwhile, the reaction of COOH and CH3 provides another route for the formation of acetic acid. CH3 radicals also contribute to the carbon prolongation of oxygenates. That explains why the selectivity of organic acids increases with the CH4 content in reactant gas, suggesting that the CHx species are vital in the prolongation of C-C bond.
4. Conclusion
This pioneering work focused on the effect of K-promoter use in iron-based plasma-catalytic conversion of CO2 and CH4 by comparing experimental results obtained with and without K-promoter to show the difference in terms of products and selectivities. For that, a non-thermal DBD-type plasma was generated in an iron-based catalytic fixed-bed reactor. Syngas, C2+ hydrocarbons and C1+ oxygenates were obtained under soft conditions (i.e. near ambient conditions). The influence of operating parameters on the plasma-catalytic conversion was investigated. Moreover, a TOS study allowed to demonstrate the catalytic stability and an in-situ OES analysis allowed to identify species generated in the plasma.
Comparing to the plasma-only process, the formation of hydrocarbons and liquid oxygenates are indisputably enhanced by the use of iron-based catalysts, while the introduction of K-promoter clearly increases the selectivity of unsaturated hydrocarbons and liquid oxygenates because of the changes in structure and physicochemical properties. Notably, the unsaturated over saturated hydrocarbons ratio raises up to almost 1 over K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst which is a great advance compared to most of the related works published in the literature until now. Moreover, with this catalyst, the H2/CO ratio of the co-produced syngas reaches 2 which is a great value for its use in the Fischer-Tropsch process. To finish, the selectivity of liquid oxygenates reaches 21.76% which is an encouraging result for future developments.
It is also important to mention that the catalysts keep stable over 9 h of TOS, no decrease in conversion rate and products selectivity was observed. Architectures of catalysts and granule sizes significantly alter the discharge behavior and consequently affect the catalytic performance. So, an optimal applied voltage must be found to limit that. With the K-Fe/C-SiO2 catalyst in our reactor configuration, the optimum value is equal to 6.0 kV considering the conversion rate and selectivity variations. At this stage, the contribution of hotspots is not clear in this plasma-catalytic process which globally operates near ambient conditions but the results of this work showed that their density could be a lever to orientate the process towards higher U/S products.
This preliminary work demonstrates the advantages of using K promoted iron-based catalyst for plasma-catalytic conversion of the two main greenhouse gases at near ambient conditions and so provide a new trail for improving the production of added-value hydrocarbons and liquid oxygenates by this way to move forward the development of an innovative green sustainable chemistry solution. The products whose production rate is increased by this means are valuable molecules for many current chemical industrial applications.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Shengfei Wang: Methodology, Investigation, Data curation, Formal analysis, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing. Vandad Rohani: Conceptualization, Validation, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Funding acquisition. Tongqi Ye: Data curation, Formal analysis, Writing – review & editing. Paul Dupont: Formal analysis, Writing. Sylvain Pagnon: Methodology, Investigation, Writing – review & editing. Mohamed Sennour: Methodology, Investigation. Laurent Fulcheri: Conceptualization, Validation, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Funding acquisition.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by Mines Paris, Université PSL and Institut Mines-Télécom. Shengfei Wang thanks them for their contribution and support to his PhD scholarship.
Appendix A. Supplementary material
Download : Download Word document (7MB)
Supplementary material.
.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
