<DOCUMENT>
C−H Bond Activation and Organometallic Intermediates on Isolated Metal Centers on Oxide Surfaces

SPECIAL ISSUE
This article is part of the 2010 Selected Functionalization of CH Bonds special issue.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The selective activation and transformation of alkanes or aromatics have been a research goal for several decades. (1-3) Today, research in this area is strongly motivated by the need to optimize resources and to shorten the number of steps, hence the direct and selective transformation of petrochemicals into valuable products is therefore of major interest. Any of these processes will have first to rely on the selective C−H bond activation. This has been the holy grail in molecular organometallic chemistry and homogeneous catalysis for some years; (1, 4, 5) several success stories have appeared in the past ten years, (6-9) including progress in the direct catalytic functionalization of methane into methanol. (10-13) However, finding stable catalytic systems using acceptable operating conditions remains a challenge. In heterogeneous catalysis, several large scale industrial processes are based on the selective C−H bond activation of alkanes and lead to the synthesis of more valuable and functionalized products in a single step, for instance the direct oxidation of butane into maleic anhydride, (14-16) the dehydrogenation of propane into propene, (17, 18) or the direct transformation of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) into aromatics. (19-24)
C−H bond activation is in fact a ubiquitous process in heterogeneous catalysis. It involves various types of mechanisms and intermediates. C−H bond activation involving carbonium and carbenium ion intermediates (3, 25-27) or taking place on metal particles (supported or not) or clean metal surfaces (28-35) has been extensively reviewed in the past years. Here, we will focus on processes involving C−H bond activation of alkanes and aromatics on isolated metal centers of surfaces on oxide materials leading to organometallic species and/or intermediates. The review is divided into two main sections focusing on the C−H bond activation on oxide materials and related systems (section ) and on well-defined organometallic complexes supported on oxide materials (section ). Section is subdivided into four parts describing C−H bond activation on bulk oxides, bulk metal halides, supported transition-metal oxides, and metal-exchange zeolites.
Oxide Materials and Related Systems
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Bulk Oxides
Stoichiometric C−H Bond Activation and H/D Exchange Processes
H/D exchange processes in D2/alkane and CH4/CD4 mixtures are catalyzed by various metal oxides (MxOy), and in most cases they take place via C−H bond activation and formation of a metal-alkyl intermediate (Scheme 1a). A comprehensive study of the reactivity of oxides in H/D exchange processes shows that oxide materials can be divided into four main categories: (36, 37) those with (1) no activity: Nb2O5, MoO3, SiO2, SnO2, Tb4O7, WO3, and Y2O3, (2) low activity: CeO2, Fe2O3, Mn2O3, and TiO2, (3) moderate activity: Al2O3, CaO, Gd2O3, La2O3, MgO, Nd2O3, Pr6O11, Sm2O3, Yb2O3, and ZrO2, and (4) higher activity: Cr2O3, Ga2O3, and ZnO. Note that this trend is similar to what has been observed for the activity of these oxides in hydrogenation (38-41) or in the H/D exchange reaction of a H2/D2 mixture (Scheme 1b). (42) This probably indicates that the active sites are likely the same in all these cases. Additionally, the primary product of the reaction of D2 and CH4 is CH3D, which is in agreement with a stepwise incorporation of deuterium. (37, 43) Note that the activity in H/D exchange reactions of these oxides can be related to neither the Lewis acidity nor the Lewis basicity of the oxide materials.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. (a) Formation of Metal−Alkyl Intermediates by C−H Bond Activation on M−OS, with OS Designating the O Atoms of the Oxide Surface and (b) Related Activation of H2
In particular, H/D exchange and C−H bond activation processes have been extensively studied on alumina in the past 40 years. (44-60) All these studies agree that H/D exchange takes place (1) on a small amount of surface sites (defect sites), ca. 0.02−0.04/nm2 (to be compared with an OH density of 4 OH/nm2 after dehydroxylation at 500 °C), which are formed upon thermal treatments above 400 °C, and (2) via the heterolytic splitting of the C−H bond on highly reactive Al−O surface sites (σ-bond metathesis or ambiphilic C−H activation). (61) The most recent study combining experiment (titration, IR, and solid state NMR) and theory showed that, in the case of methane, C−H bond activation occurs on AlIII sites, the most unsaturated and reactive Al sites, and generates surface AlSOH and AlIV−CH3 species (Scheme 2). (60) It has also been proposed that other alkanes should react in similar ways with these sites and could be further converted into alkenes. (62) Similarly to CH4, H2 reacts with the same AlIIIO sites but also with the less reactive AlIVO sites. (60)
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Heterolytic Splitting of H-X on Al−OS Sites (Defect Sites): (a) X = CH3 and (b) X = H (S = surface) and x = 0 or 1. (c) σ-bond Metathesis Transition State
It is probable that C−H bond activation on other oxides takes place via similar processes and involves organometallic intermediates. This includes aluminosilicates, whether amorphous or crystalline (zeolites), (59, 63) which display analogous reactivity toward H2 and alkanes. In fact, similar activation energies for the H/D exchange process were also measured. It is therefore likely that H/D exchange processes take place via heterolytic splitting of C−H and H−H bonds on highly reactive Al sites, a process involving lower activation barriers (50−80 kJ/mol) than those involving carbonium or carbenium ions (typically Ea of 120−150 kJ/mol).
Finally, the C−H bond activation of alkyl fragments can also occur during the chemisorption of organometallic compounds on alumina (grafting). While grafting typically takes place via reaction of the surface hydroxyls with the reactive M−C bond, (64-67) in the particular case of MeReO3, it was shown that grafting occurred via either coordination of the oxo ligand on Lewis acid sites or C−H bond activation of the methyl group on defect sites. (68-70) This yields [CH3ReO3 → AlS] and [AlSCH2ReO3] as the major and the minor surface species, respectively (Scheme 3a). In view of the high activity of this system in alkene metathesis and labeling experiments, (68, 69, 71, 72) it was also shown that the μ-methylidene species [AlSCH2ReO3] correspond to the active sites of the catalyst (Scheme 3b). It is noteworthy that other supports such as nobia, (73) silica−alumina, (71) and zeolite (74) can be used to activate CH3ReO3, and one could propose that similar active species are formed on these supports via C−H bond activation of the methyl group on reactive M−OS sites. Finally, C−H bond activation processes yielding μ-methylidene surface species have also been proposed to explain the formation of minor species in the chemisorption of Cp2M(CH3)2 on highly dehydroxylated alumina (Scheme 3c, M = U and Th). (66, 75, 76)
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. (a) Formation of the Active Sites of MeReO3/Al2O3 via C−H Bond Activation. (b) Formation of the Key Carbene Intermediates and Alkylidene Exchange Reaction (π-Bond Metathesis). (c) Grafting of Cp*2M(CH3)2 on Dehydroxylated Alumina (M = U or Th)
Alkane Dehydrogenation on Metal Oxides
In alkane dehydrogenation, one possible reaction pathway involved the formation of a metal−alkyl intermediate, which undergoes β-H elimination and generates an alkene. Of various oxides, Ga2O3, whether supported or not, catalytically dehydrogenates alkanes such as ethane and propane into the corresponding alkenes in the absence of O2, (77-81) a reactivity closely related to what is observed with Ga-exchange zeolites (vide infra section ). Note that Cr2O3 or Fe2O3 display a much lower activity and that Al2O3 and SiO2 are almost inactive for this reaction. (82, 83) This order of reactivity parallels again this observed for H/D exchange reactions (vide supra). Moreover, it has been shown that cofeeding CO2 typically increases both the activity and the stability of these nonoxidative dehydrogenation catalysts; possibly because CO2 plays the role of a mild oxidant and prevents coke formation. (80, 81, 84, 85) A detailed mechanistic investigation of the dehydrogenation process by periodic DFT calculations shows that the C−H bond activation can take place via either heterolytic splitting on highly reactive Ga−OS or H-abstraction on a reactive OS site, leading to an adsorbed alkyl radical intermediate and a surface hydroxyl, with the latter process being slightly favored (Scheme 4). (86) Both pathways can converge toward Ga−alkyl intermediates, which were observed experimentally, (87) but the radical mechanism can also yield Ga−alkoxy species. Calculations also show that all these intermediates, i.e. the adsorbed alkyl radical and the Ga−alkyl and the Ga−alkoxy species, can readily yield propene via further H-transfer: (i) from the radical intermediate [a subsequent H-transfer by another OS atom, yielding propene and a reduced Ga-center, is preferred over the formation of Ga−H], (ii) from the alkoxy species [H-transfer to an adjacent surface oxygen with a concomitant reduction of Ga is also favored compared to H-transfer to a surface Ga leading to Ga−H (not shown), but the most favored pathway is the cleavage of the O−C bond and the formation of the radical], and (iii) from the alkyl species [β-H transfer forming Ga−H and propene is also disfavored compared to H-transfer to adjacent O atoms].
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Possible Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Ga2O3: (a) Formation of Alkenes; (b) Formation of H2
The most likely mechanism for propane dehydrogenation into propene on Ga2O3 takes place via H-transfer on O sites and a concomitant reduction of surface Ga-centers. As already pointed out, metal−alkyl intermediates have been observed (87) but could only correspond to dormant species of the overall catalytic cycle. The thus-generated alkyl radical generates via H-transfer the alkene and GaIII−H. This intermediate can then decompose into H2 to regenerate the initial surface sites (GaIII). However, H-transfer can also lead to the formation of strongly adsorbed H2O: this process is easier than the formation of H2, even if overall H2 formation is easier than that of gaseous H2O. Note that the competitive formation/desorption of H2O leads to a modification of the reduction of Ga sites (GaI). This would explain the fast deactivation of Ga2O3 as well as the beneficial effect of added H2O (88) and CO2, with the former inducing H2 desorption and the latter reoxidation of Ga centers. (80, 81, 84, 85) Note that the dehydrogenation activity of Ga2O3 (compared to those of Al2O3 and SiO2 for instance) could be related to the ease of formation of reduced surface species, i.e. GaI. While the dehydrogenation of alkanes on Ga2O3 is promising, rapid deactivation is still a major problem. Improved stabilities have been obtained by using solid solution in alumina (83) or by using supported systems. (88, 89)
Oxidative Dehydrogenation and Selective Oxidation of Alkanes
All selective oxidations of alkanes start by C−H bond activation, which is often the rate-limiting step, and this key step is usually an H-abstraction by surface oxygen species yielding radical intermediates, which are further transformed into the products via multiple steps, and no evidence for metal−alkyl intermediates has been found. It typically involves the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, i.e. the oxidation of the alkane by the metal oxide and reoxidation of the solid by molecular oxygen. This area has been comprehensively reviewed, (14-17, 90-92) and only a few examples will be discussed thereafter, mainly to illustrate the current possible mechanisms involved in the C−H bond activation step.
The direct and selective conversion of alkanes into oxygenates by oxidation with molecular oxygen has been a great challenge for decades. Note that high selectivities are usually achieved for very specific substrates, which yield very stable products, e.g. propane → acrylic acid, butane → maleic anhydride, xylene → phtalic anhydride.... The most noteworthy example of this series is probably the direct conversion of butane into maleic anhydride with high selectivities (up to 97% at 65% conversion), and it is in fact a commercial process. (14, 93) One of the best catalytic systems is based on vanadium phosphate (VPO), which is also used to convert selectively o-xylene into phtalic anhydride. Butane oxidation into maleic anhydride corresponds to a 14-electron oxidation process and involves several key stages: formation of butenes, then butadiene, and 1,4-dihydrofuran, which is then subsequently converted into maleic anhydride (Scheme 5a). (90, 94) While the actual elementary steps of such a complicated process and the nature of the active sites are still matters of debates, the rate determining step is the C−H bond activation of butane. The most commonly accepted mechanism involves the conversion of butane into 2-butenes via a concerted abstraction of two hydrogen atoms on VIV−O species (Scheme 5b), (95, 96) which is followed by the reoxidation of the active phase by O2 (the Mars van Krevelen mechanism). Alternative mechanisms have been proposed, such as the H-abstraction of butane by activated O2 coordinated to VIV centers, which leads to strongly adsorbed 2-butene or 2-butanone, which can then be converted into butadiene via Brönsted acid catalysis. (97)
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Oxidation of Butane into Maleic Anhydride on VPO Catalyst: (a) Reaction Intermediates; (b) Most Commonly Accepted Mechanism for the Formation of 2-Butene
The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is also another important reaction. (98) One of the key problems is that the oxidation of the alkene product is often easier (faster) than that of the starting alkane. This consequently requires operating the process at low conversions in order to reach high selectivities. ODH can be carried out on various bulk metal oxides (e.g., V2O5), albeit in very low yield per pass. In fact, the corresponding supported systems give usually much higher activity and selectivity; they are discussed in more detail in section (vide infra). Of several other systems that have been investigated, MOP (M = Ti, Zr, V, Fe), (99, 100) VMgOx, (98, 101, 102) VSiZrOx, (103, 104) and CrSiMO (M = Al or Zr) (105) show relatively high selectivities. In all cases, the C−H bond activation has also been identified as the rate determining step. Note again that ODH, and in particular that of ethane, necessitates relatively high temperatures (above 600 °C), for which homogeneous gas phase reactions can be predominant. It has been proposed that C−H bond activation probably leads to M−alkyl intermediates (not observed), which readily decompose to the corresponding 1-alkene by abstraction of a β-H of the alkyl chain by a surface oxygen atom (Scheme 6). An alternative concerted 2H-abstraction mechanism can be proposed by analogy with what has been proposed in the selective oxidation of alkanes on VPO catalysts (vide supra, Scheme 5b). (98, 103) The selectivity of dehydrogenation vs formation of oxygenated products has been correlated to the distance between sites, which implies the need for site isolation.
Scheme 6
The conversion of propene into acrolein and acrylonitrile (ammoxidation) using bismuth−molybdate catalysts is a well-known process (eqs 1 and ), (106, 107) and the corresponding ammoxidation process of propane has been developed (eq 3). (92, 108) This process involves propene as a key intermediate, and the subsequent elementary steps are those of propene ammoxidation. Note however that the ammoxidation of propane requires much higher reaction temperatures (>500 °C) and longer residential time than that of propene and that the conversion of propane into propene is not catalyzed and involves mainly a gas phase reaction. In all these processes, propene, whether the reactant or generated in situ, is converted via a C−H bond activation involving a H-abstraction to generate a stabilized propenyl radical (Scheme 7). (109) Considering the number of subsequent steps, the selectivity is therefore a critical issue, and it relies on site isolation of active phases (note the difference with single-site catalysts): a too high density leads to combustion of propene and a too low density to the formation of allyl radical, thus leading to C6 byproduct. (110) Several catalysts can be used, including the well-known ammoxidation catalyst MoBiOx, but more complex systems have been developed involving multicomponent oxides based on Mo−V−Nb−Ta−Sb−Te.... (111-113) Similarly, the conversions of propane into acrylic (eq 4) and of 2-methylpropane into methacrylic acid (eq 5) have been studied in detail with similar types of catalysts: VPO, bismuth-molybdate catalysts, and multicompenent oxide catalysts, e.g. Mo−V−Te(Sb). (114, 115)
Scheme 7
Finally, oxidative coupling of methane into ethylene has also been extensively studied (eq 6), and it is catalyzed by bulk oxides and particularly alkaline earth oxides (MgO) (116, 117) or rare earth oxides (La2O3), (106) typically doped with alkali ions (Li). (118, 119) While M−alkyl intermediates might be formed at lower temperatures, (120) the key step of this reaction is a H-abstraction, the formation of radical intermediates, and subsequent gas phase reactions. (121-123) This limits the selectivity of this reaction: currently, 80% C2 selectivity at 20% conversion (with a projected maximum of 30% yield). (124)
Bulk Metal Halides
It is noteworthy that bulk metal halides and, in particular, LaCl3 catalyze several processes involving C−H bond activation: for instance, the selective transformation of methane into chloromethane (Scheme 8) (125) and the hydrogen−chlorine exchange between chlorinated hydrocarbons; for example, CHCl3 and CHCl3 are transformed into 2CH2Cl2 (eq 7). (126) In contrast to the chlorination of methane by Cl2, which involves a radical chain reaction (eq 8), the reaction catalyzed by LaCl3 yields selectively CH3Cl. The conversion of methane into chloromethane, catalyzed at 400 °C by LaCl3, requires HCl and O2, (125) and the C−H bond activation occurs at the surface of the material on LaClO sites, which are generated by the partial oxidation of the surface chloride of LaCl3 by O2. The oxide is then transformed back into the chloride material by exchange with HCl, and water is desorbed. In the absence of O2, LaClO is consumed and LaCl3 becomes inactive.
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Selective Chlorination of Methane by HCl/O2 Catalyzed by LaCl3 and the Proposed C−H Bond Activation Step
Supported Transition-Metal Oxides
These systems have been widely studied in the past decades, in particular because of their catalytic properties, which allow a broad range of catalytic alkane transformations: alkane dehydrogenation (18, 127) and oxidative dehydrogenation as well as selective oxidation of alkanes. (98, 128-131) Of several catalysts, supported group 5 and 6 metal oxides, typically VOx, (101, 132, 133) NbOx, (134) CrOx, (18, 127) MoOx, and WOx, (135) are particularly interesting. These systems are characterized by the presence of isolated sites or small clusters at a low surface coverage; with bulk oxides being formed only at higher surface coverage (above a monolayer). (106, 110) Independently of the catalysts and the reactions, the C−H bond activation is often the rate determining step. We will discuss in a first part the dehydrogenation of alkanes and then in a second part both the oxidative dehydrogenation and selective oxidation of alkanes into oxygenates, because they have common reaction intermediates.
Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
The CATOFIN process, which is used to produce propene and isobutene from the corresponding alkanes, is performed with catalysts based on chromium oxide supported on alumina. (18, 127) Despite the complexity of the surface state of the catalysts, a consensus has been emerging: the active sites probably correspond to an isolated Cr3+ in a pseudo-octahedral environment (Scheme 9a). (136, 137) However, other active species such as small chromium oxide clusters are likely participating in the overall process. The current proposed mechanism involves the C−H bond activation on a Cr−OS bond, thus forming a Cr-alkyl intermediate, which can decompose via β-H transfer, (138, 139) to form the alkene and a CrIII−H surface species. While the direct elimination of H2 from this species is highly disfavored, the subsequent C−H bond activation on this intermediate via a favorable σ-bond metathesis step leads to a new M−alkyl intermediate and thereby to a viable catalytic pathway (Scheme 9b). One of the problems of this process is its high endothermicity and the low associated conversion. This is compensated by the use of high reaction temperatures, which are accompanied by a deactivation of the catalyst via coke formation. Therefore, research efforts have concentrated on finding more stable catalysts using different supports (SiO2, ZrO2, ...) (106) or on using promoters such as CO2, which can displace the equilibrium and slow down coke formation for silica supported systems. (140, 141)
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Proposed Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Supported Chromium Oxides
Oxidative Dehydrogenation and Selective Oxidation of Alkanes
It is possible to increase the yield of alkane dehydrogenation using molecular oxygen as coreactant to displace the thermodynamic equilibrium by oxidation of coproduct H2 into H2O. (131) However, despite years of research, the yields are still limited, and this reaction needs to operate at low conversions to avoid large amounts of overoxidation products (COx). The best catalyst used for the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkane (ODH), and typically that of propane, is based on VOx supported on oxide materials, (98, 130, 131, 133) but MoOx supported catalysts are becoming competitive. (142-144) These types of catalysts can also be used to catalytically convert methane into oxygenates, e.g. formaldehyde, in the presence of O2 or N2O, albeit with a low yield (2−5%; high selectivity only obtained at low conversions): VOx, (145-147) MoOx, (148-150) WOx, (151) as well as FeOx. (152-154) While leading to very different products, these reactions have common reaction intermediates and have the same rate determining step, i.e. C−H bond activation. (155, 156) Elementary steps for these reactions and particularly the C−H bond activation step have been a matter of debate for many years, and several reaction pathways can be proposed depending on the structure of the active sites: terminal metal oxo or μ-oxo species, isolated vs polynuclear species (Scheme 8). (157-160) First, C−H bond activation on a terminal oxo species can take place via addition of the C−H bond across the M=O bond, [2 + 2]; two approaches are possible, leading to alkyl or hydride intermediates, respectively (Scheme 10a and b). Alternatively, C−H bond activation on the terminal oxo species can lead directly to the formation of the corresponding alcohol bound to the reduced metal center (oxenoïd insertion mechanism, Scheme 10c). C−H bond activation can occur via H-abstraction, generating an alkyl radical intermediate; on bis-oxo species, typically present on MoOx systems, syn and anti approaches are possible (Schemes 10d and e). H-abstraction can also occur on μ-O bridge species (Scheme 10f). Finally, C−H bond activation can also occur via [3 + 2]- or [5 + 2]-activation for sites with gem and vicinal bis-oxo species, respectively (Schemes 10g and h). These processes involve either nonredox two-electron processes (the heterolytic splitting of the C−H bond on acid−base centers), redox two-electron processes ([n + m]-processes), or a redox one-electron process generating radicals. DFT calculations on cluster models clearly show that the lowest energy barrier is usually associated with the H-abstraction process on terminal oxo species (anti better than syn) with Cr (20.0 kcal mol−1) < V (35.5 kcal mol−1) < Mo (45.0 kcal mol−1) < W (56.8 kcal mol−1). (159) However, C−H bond activation leading to a metal−alkyl intermediate (Scheme 10b) can be competitive in some cases: W (43.6 kcal mol−1) < Mo (50.1 kcal mol−1) < V (57.0 kcal mol−1) < Cr (not found). So far, however, no metal−alkyl intermediate has been experimentally observed for these systems.
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. C−H Bond Activation of Alkanes on Surface Metal Oxo Species (x = 0 or 1)
Oxidative Dehydrogenation (ODH) on Supported VOx
The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane are promising processes. (131) In the specific case of the conversion of ethane into ethene, it is even competitive with steam cracking. Supported vanadium oxides are particularly noteworthy because the active sites possibly involve isolated VO species (in contrast to the other systems based on MoOx or WOx). In fact, both too low and too high surface V densities are detrimental to high selectivities, and this has been associated with the combustion of the thus-formed alkenes into COx on the support and/or the polymeric V species. (133, 161-163) Such processes are particularly important for alkenes having allylic C−H bonds, e.g. propene and higher alkenes, which are more readily activated. Small clusters and particularly isolated sites on fully covered oxide surfaces have been proposed to be essential to achieve high selectivities. It is therefore not surprising that the support is an important component in the catalyst formulation, as it can more or less stabilize isolated centers, small clusters vs larger V2O5 crystallites. Overall, silica can be regarded as the optimal support in terms of selectivity. Another important fact is that the optimal temperature window for this process is quite narrow, and around 500 °C, lower temperatures favor combustion while unselective gas phase reactions start to be competitive at higher temperatures (>550 °C). (161, 162, 164) This is directly related to the easier C−H bond activation of propene, the product, which is associated with a lower activation energy than the C−H bond activation of propane, the reactant. ODH on supported VOx also follows the typical Mars−van Krevelen mechanism, i.e. oxidation of the alkane with a concomitant reduction of metal oxo surface species followed by a reoxidation of the active sites by molecular oxygen and desorption of water. (165) Reoxidation of the catalyst is fast, and the rate determining step of the overall process is again the first C−H bond activation of the alkane. The terminal oxo species of VV surface species are the most reactive O sites according to DFT calculations on a model for isolated silica supported vanadyl species (Scheme 11). (166) Similar results were obtained by periodic calculations on V2O5. (167, 168) The most favored C−H bond activation step corresponds to a H-abstraction, which yields a radical intermediate and a reduced VIV−OH species. Calculations also suggest that the formation of propene in the propane dehydrogenation is most favored via subsequent H-abstraction of the propyl radical on an adjacent isolated VO species (in place of further reduction of vanadium into VIII(OH2). (166, 169) In all cases, reoxidation of VIII or VIV species is always easy with O2.
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. (a) ODH of Propane on Silica Supported VOx. (b) Proposed Mechanisms
Metal-Exchanged Zeolites
Metal exchange zeolites (M-zeolites) have concentrated a large research effort, because of their ability to transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics. (23, 170-172) They can also be used to catalyze the alkylation of aromatics with methane, (173) the coaromatization of methane and alkanes, (174) and the direct aromatization of methane (Scheme 12). (173, 175, 176) While all these transformations are still subject to many mechanistic debates and detailed investigations, M−alkyl species are probably key intermediates. They are formed via C−H bond activation on isolated (M−OS), dinuclear (M2O2), or more complex polynuclear sites (MxOy). These M-zeolites can be of various structures (typically identified with three letter codes: MFI, MOR, ZSM-5...) (177) and compositions, and can include a wide range of metals M, ranging from main group (Al, Ga) to transition-metal elements (Cu, Fe, Mn, Mo, Pt, W, Zn, ...). A vast research effort has focused on Ga- and Zn-zeolites because of their industrial relevance and their unprecedented reactivity, and these systems will be discussed hereafter in more detail.
Scheme 12
For instance, the Cyclar and related processes (aroforming or Z-forming) typically use Ga-zeolite to convert in a single step liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), composed of propane and butane, into H2 and liquid aromatics, i.e., benzene, toluene, and xylenes. (19-24) Conversion of alkanes into aromatics takes place via successive dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization steps. While all these steps are not fully understood, Ga-zeolites act as a multifunctional catalyst, and one of the key steps, the formation of alkenes from alkanes, takes place at Ga sites and involves a C−H bond activation and formation of a Ga−alkyl intermediate. Ga-zeolites are also known to activate H2 (178, 179) and alkanes and to catalyze H/D exchange reactions. (20) In all cases, the active sites probably result from charge-compensation of framework aluminum by mononuclear Ga ([Ga+], (180, 181) [Ga(═O)+] (180, 182-184)) or dinuclear species [Ga2O22+] (Figure 1). (185-187) These species correspond to highly Lewis acidic centers, which can readily polarize and activate the C−H bond of alkanes as well as H2 to generate Ga−R (or Ga−H) and OH surface species (Scheme 13). Model studies show that [Ga+]-species have a relatively low activation barrier for C−H bond activation of ethane via heterolytic splitting followed by a rearrangement into [Ga(H)(Et)+] and then the concomitant elimination of H2 and ethene (Scheme 13a). (181) C−H bond activation on [Ga(O)+] generates [Ga(R)(OH)+]-species, which can readily generate ethene and [Ga(H)(OH)+]-species. However, the latter species are not prompt to eliminate H2 to regenerate [Ga(O)+], but H2O instead, leading to a reduction to Ga+ species (Scheme 13b). This shows that [Ga(O)+] is probably not the active site of choice for dehydrogenation. (188) More recent experimental and computational studies point toward dinuclear Ga species as active sites (Scheme 13c), for which all steps are favored. (186, 187) In particular, the easier desorption of H2 is noteworthy and probably results from the presence of less basic O sites in the dinuclear Ga2O22+ core with respect to this of the Ga+ or GaO+ site.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Computational models for Ga+, GaO+, and [Ga2O2]2+ sites of a Ga-zeolite, e.g. zeolite = MOR. Adapted from ref 186 with the help of the authors. Copyright 2009 Royal Society of Chemistry.
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. Dehydrogenation of Alkanes on Ga-Zeolites: (a) Ga+ Active Sites, (b) Ga═O+ Active Sites, and (c) Ga2O2 Active Sites
Zn-zeolites display a very similar reactivity pattern: H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, formation of aromatics from alkanes, (189, 190) and the coaromatization of methane and alkane. (173) Note also that Zn-zeolites probably contain similar dinuclear structures [Zn2O2] (Scheme 13c). (178, 179, 191-197) Alkane activation (including methane) also occurs via C−H bond activation and formation of metal−alkyl intermediates, which have been experimentally observed on different Zn-zeolites. (179, 195, 196, 198, 199) Of several studies on the H/D exchange reaction of D2/alkane mixtures on various Zn-zeolites, (20, 200-202) a recent comparative study of H- and Zn-zeolite (zeolite = BEA) shows that Zn-BEA displays a much lower activation energy and higher rates (ca. 2 orders of magnitude) than the corresponding H-zeolite, (201) which clearly shows that the reaction mechanisms are different for the two systems, i.e. carbonium ion for H-BEA vs metal−alkyl intermediates for Zn-BEA. M-exchange zeolites and particularly those containing Mo or even Zn also catalyze the direct conversion of methane into benzene and H2 with a high selectivity (>90%). (170, 172, 175, 176) While the structure and the nature of the active sites are still a matter of debate, it is accepted that methane is first converted into ethylene, which is then converted into benzene through acid catalysis. Several mechanisms have been proposed for the first step involving the formation of ethylene, and they involve the following: (1) carbocations, (2) radicals, or (3) organometallic intermediates, and more specifically alkylidenes, alkylidynes, or carbides. (203) Several experiments are consistent with the formation of Mo2C and imply that it could be the active species or a precursor of the active species. (204, 205) It is therefore possible that C−H bond activation on MoCx species leads to the growth of an alkyl chain and the formation of alkenes, similarly to what is observed in the nonoxidative coupling of methane on silica supported tantalum hydrides (vide infra, section). (206) Finally, besides C−H bond activation, it is noteworthy that stable σ-RH complexes could be observed for Cu-ZSM5 (Figure 2). (207, 208) From these studies, it is clear that metal−alkyl surface complexes are key reaction intermediates in the dehydrogenation/aromatization processes catalyzed by M-zeolites.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Computational models for σ-alkane Cu complexes in zeolites. Adapted from ref 208 with the help of the authors.
Under oxidizing conditions, metal-exchange zeolites, and, more specifically, those containing MoOx and WOx, catalyze the direct oxidation of methane into methanol/formaldehyde and related oxidation processes (see section ). (209-212) Here, it is probable that C−H bond activation takes place similarly to what has been proposed for MoOx and WOx supported on oxide materials (vide supra, section ), i.e. via H-abstraction and a radical mechanism. Moreover, Fe-zeolites are also noteworthy: they catalyze the direct and selective oxidation of benzene into phenol by N2O. (213-215) While this reaction corresponds to the selective functionalization of an aromatic C−H bond, several mechanisms are possible, such as the direct insertion of O in the C−H bond of benzene or the epoxidation followed by an acid catalyzed rearrangement of the unstable epoxide into phenol (Scheme 14). With methane, however, the reaction is stoichiometric, yielding stable MeO−Fe surface species, which can only yield methanol (in a stoichiometric way) upon extraction. (216)
Scheme 14
Scheme 14. (a) Selective Oxidation of Benzene into Phenol by N2O Catalyzed by Fe-Zeolites; (b) Mechanism via Direct C−H Bond Activation; (c) Mechanism via Epoxidation
Well-Defined Organometallic Complexes Supported on Oxide Materials
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The controlled reaction of molecular organometallic complexes on oxide surfaces yields well-defined organometallic complexes grafted on oxides with a variety of ligands such as hydrides, alkyls, alkylidenes, and alkylidynes, which are able to react with the C−H bond of alkanes. (217) Here, we will discuss in detail stoichiometric and catalytic processes involving C−H bond activation.
Stoichiometric C−H Bond Activation and H/D Exchange Processes
Activation of Alkanes on Silica Supported Metal Hydrides
M-alkyl surface fragments are readily formed upon the C−H bond activation of alkanes on silica supported metal hydrides. For instance, the silica supported zirconium hydrides (218-222) react with a wide range of alkanes, e.g., CH4, CnH2n+2, and cycloalkanes, at low temperatures to yield the corresponding metal alkyl complexes and H2, (223) as observed with analogous molecular d0 complexes (Scheme 15a). (224) In particular, C−H bond activation of propane is faster on primary carbons and yields the most stable n-propyl surface species along with the isopropyl surface species as the minor isomer. (225) This reaction takes place via σ-bond metathesis, which formally corresponds to the transfer of a proton from the alkane to the Zr-hydride. Here, the transition state has a quasi triangular shape with an almost linear arrangement of the C atom and the two H atoms. (226-230)
Scheme 15
Scheme 15. (a) C−H Bond Activation of Cycloalkanes on Silica Supported Zirconium Hydrides [Zr−H]; (b) Formation and Structure of [Zr−H]; (c) H/D Exchange Reaction Catalyzed by [Zr−H] (M = Zr); (d) Stepwise Mechanism (Favored); (e) One-Step Mechanism (Unfavored)
The most recent spectroscopic investigations showed that the silica supported zirconium hydrides were a mixture of mono- and bis-hydrides (Scheme 15b), (231) and the study of their relative reactivity toward CH4 showed that the bis-hydride is much more reactive, (232) which is consistent with calculations. (230) Additionally, these species catalyze H/D exchange in H2/D2 or CH4/D2 mixtures via a stepwise insertion of deuterium (Scheme 15c−e), with the former being very fast, even at temperatures below room temperature. (233) Computational studies have shown that the reaction pathway is probably a two-step mechanism involving C−H bond activation via σ-bond metathesis, thus forming a metal−alkyl intermediate, followed by hydrogenolysis (the reverse step), which regenerates the metal hydride and incorporates deuterium in the alkane (Scheme 15d). (228) A direct one-step reaction pathway is highly disfavored (Ea > 65 kcal mol−1), because it involves a four-center transition state with a carbon in the β-position (Scheme 15e). (227)
The related silica supported tantalum hydrides are prepared in a similar way. They are mixtures of surface species (Scheme 16a), and current data are consistent with the presence of mono- and tris-hydride species. (234) This system displays a similar reactivity to zirconium hydrides, i.e. the low temperature activation of alkanes and H/D exchange reactions, through very likely the same mechanism, σ-bond metathesis (Scheme 15c and d, M = Ta). (235-238) Nonetheless, in the specific case of cycloalkanes, the cycloalkyl surface species evolved toward more highly unsaturated species through dehydrogenation processes. For instance, activation of cyclopentane yields a well-defined silica supported cyclopentandienyl tantalum species, (238) which involves successive C−H bond activation processes (Scheme 16b). (239, 240) In the case of methane, it leads to the formation of Ta—CH3, Ta═CH2, and Ta≡CH species (Scheme 16c). (234) Computational studies suggest that the tris-hydride Ta species is probably the active species and activates alkanes via σ-bond metathesis. (241)
Scheme 16
Scheme 16. (a) Formation and Structure of the Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides [Ta−H]; (b) Reaction of [Ta−H] with Cyclopentane; (c) Reaction of [Ta−H] with CH4
Finally, alumina supported Th hydride species, generated by treatment under H2 of Th(allyl)4 supported on dehydroxylated alumina, catalyze H/D exchange reaction of a D2/alkane mixture (3−4 bar of D2 and alkane/Th ratio = 1000, Scheme 17a and b). (242) This reaction is fast, with rates of 800−1200 h−1, and is slightly selective for terminal C−H bonds (Scheme 17c). Overall, the incorporation of deuterium is not selective, and dimethylcyclohexanes undergo cis−trans isomerization during the H/D exchange process, probably via β-H transfer and a chain walking mechanism (Scheme 17d).
Scheme 17
Scheme 17. Alumina Supported Th Hydrides and H/D Exchange Reactions: (a) Formation of [Th−H]; (b) H/D Exchange of D2/Alkane Mixtures; (c) Selectivity in Isotopomer; (d) Chain Walking Mechanims of Incorporation of D at Different Positions of an Alkane
Like metal-hydride, metal-alkyl and metal-aryl species can activate C−H bonds, leading to the exchange of perhydrocarbyl ligand. (224, 243, 244) While not directly evidenced experimentally, computational studies suggest that the methyl/methyl exchange of the d0 zirconium methyl species in the presence of methane can readily take place via σ-bond metathesis (Scheme 18a). (228) Similarly, the silica supported Ir-complex (≡SiO)Ir(Ph)(PMe3)Cp* reacts with benzene to exchange its phenyl ligand, like its molecular equivalents (Scheme 18b). (245)
Scheme 18
Scheme 18. (a) Methyl/Methane Exchange on a d0 Metal, e.g. M = Zr; (b) Phenyl/Benzene Exchange on Ir
Activation of Alkanes on Silica Supported Metal Alkylidenes and Alkylidynes
Surface metal alkylidene species are typically formed via decomposition of bis-alkyl intermediates via α-H abstraction, (246) and the reverse step corresponds to the C−H bond activation of an alkane onto a M═C bond. (247-250) Evidence for this process has been obtained in the metathesis of alkane (CH3CH2R) on various well-defined metal neopentyl neopentylidene species (M = Ta, (251, 252) Mo, (253, 254) W, (255) and Re (254)) through the formation of cross-metathesis products with the following selectivity tBuCH3 > tBuCH2CH3 > tBuCH2CH2R, while the coupling product, tBuCH2CH2CH2R, is not detected (Table 1, entries 1−9). Note that the formation of these products requires neopentyl neopentylidene surface species and an alkane of general structure RCH2CH3. This implies that both the neopentyl and the neopentylidene ligands are important and that β-H transfer is probably a key step. These products probably result from a stepwise mechanism involving known elementary steps of molecular organometallic chemistry (Scheme 19, R1 = R2 = tBu): (i) C−H bond activation of RCH2CH3 on the metal alkylidene, thus forming an intermediate with three pendant alkyl ligands [M(CH2tBu)2(CH2CH2R)], (247-250) of which one has a β-H; alternative mechanisms are possible involving the replacement of the alkyl ligand via σ-bond metathesis or the formation of an alkylidyne ligand prior to C−H bond activation (Scheme 19a); (ii) decomposition of this intermediate via α-H abstraction leading to tBuCH3 and a neopentylidene alkyl intermediate [M(═CHtBu)(CH2CH2R)] (Scheme 19b); (iii) further decomposition via β-H abstraction, generating neopentylidene hydride intermediates [M(═CHtBu)(H)] and RCH═CH2; (iv) disproportionation of these intermediates via [2 + 2]-cycloaddition and cycloreversion, which yields two sets of products [M(═CHR)(H)]/tBuCH═CH2 and [M(═CH2)(H)]/tBuCH═CHR; (v) subsequent alkene insertion into the metal alkylidene hydride intermediates, C−H bond activation, and decomposition, generating [M(═CHR)(CH2R)] and [M(═CH2)(CH2R)] along with the cross-metathesis products tBuCH2CH3 and tBuCH2CH2R (Scheme 19c). The higher selectivity of tBuCH2CH3 compared to that of tBuCH2CH2R would be the consequence of the more facile approach in the [2 + 2]-cycloaddition step of the alkene in the former case (1,3) compared to the latter (1,2), which is consistent with what is observed in the cross-metathesis of propene and well-defined neopentylidene surface complexes (formation of about a 3 to 1 ratio of tBuCH═CH2 and tBuCH═CHMe). (256-259)
Table 1. Quantity of Cross-Metathesis Products (equiv./M) in the Reaction of Propane with Well-Defined Alkylidene and Alkylidyne Supported Species
entry supported metal complexes alkane cross-metathesis products tBuCH2X
X = H X = Me X = Et X = Pr
1 (≡SiO)Ta(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 ethane 0.84 0.27 a a
2 (≡SiO)Ta(=CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 propane 1.05 0.30 0.11 a
3 (≡SiO)Ta(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 2-methylpropane 1.09 0.44 a b
4 (≡SiO)Ta(=CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 butane 1.01 0.22 0.16 0.04
5 (≡SiO)Ta(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 2,2-dimethylpropane a a a a
6 (≡SiO)Mo(NAr)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) propane 0.82 0.34 0.10 a
7 (≡SiO)Mo(NAr)(=CHtBu)(NR2) propane a a a a
8 (≡SiO)W(NAr)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) propane 0.68 0.42 0.20 a
9 (≡SiO)Re(≡CtBu)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) propane 0.50 0.59 0.22 a
10 [(≡SiO)W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] propane a a a a
11 [(AlSO)W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2]c propane 0.40 0.02 a a
12 [(≡SiO)SiO2-Al2O3W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2]d propane 0.50 0.04 a a
aNot detected, <0.01 equiv.
b2,2,4-Trimethylpentane detected in very small amounts (<0.01 equiv).
cSupported on alumina.
dSupported on silica−alumina.
Scheme 19
Scheme 19. Reaction of Alkanes (RCH2CH3) with Alkyl Alkylidene Metal Surface Species, M(═CHR1)(CH2R2): (a) C−H Bond Activation; (b) Rearrangement; (c) Formation of Cross-metathesis Products
Finally, the reaction of propane with silica−alumina and alumina supported bisalkylalkylidyne W systems, namely [(AlSO)W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] or [(≡SiO)SiO2-Al2O3W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2], (260-262) also yields the cross-metathesis products tBuCH3 and tBuCH2CH3 as well as tBuCH2CH2CH3. Nonetheless, the relative ratio of these products is very different from what is obtained by the alkyl alkylidene species and in particular the low selectivity of tBuCH2CH2CH3 (Table 1, entries 10−12). This probably shows that the mechanisms of formation of these products differ, and could result from with C—H bond activation of propane on the metal-alkylidyne species as recently demonstrated in molecular systems. (263-265) However, recent DFT calculations suggest that C−H bond activation on these alkyl alkylidyne complexes is a high energy process, and an alternative mechanism has been proposed, which involves the formation of alkene on alumina site by dehydrogenation (vide supra section ) and alkene metathesis on a bis-alkylidene intermediate. (62)
Intramolecular C−H Bond Activation Processes
Thermal decomposition of bis-alkyl surface species leads to formation of well-defined silica supported metal alkylidene complexes via α-H abstraction. This elementary step involves the intramolecular activation of the C−H bond at one of the alkyl ligands in the α-position by an adjacent ligand (here another alkyl), which corresponds to an intramolecular version of a σ-bond metathesis process. (246, 266) This process is typically observed upon the grafting of molecular alkylidene complexes on silica surfaces, e.g. Ta and Re, (267-269) which first react with the surface silanols via [1,2]-addition, yielding bis-alkyl species before decomposing into the alkylidene (Scheme 20a). Note however that other grafting pathways have been encountered; for example, grafting of Mo and W alkylidene complexes usually takes place via the direct electrophilic cleavage of σ-bonded ligands (Scheme 20b). (258, 259, 270) Note also that [(tBuCH2)3Mo(≡N)] reacts with surface silanols to generate [(≡SiO)Mo(═NH)(CH2tBu)3], which probably decomposes into the putative surface complex [(≡SiO) Mo(═NH)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)], as evidenced by the evolution of tBuCH3 and the high activity of this species in alkene metathesis (Scheme 20c). (271, 272) The α-H abstraction process has also been observed upon the thermal treatment of bis(alkyl) surface species [(≡SiO)2M(CH2R)2] (M = Ti, Zr, and Cr; Scheme 20d), which yields [(≡SiO)2M(═CHR)]. (273-275) Finally, the mechanism of grafting [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2], a d2 complex, is also noteworthy and leads to [(≡SiO)Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] via isomerization of the metal fragment from a bis-alkylidene into an alkyl alkylidyne complex (Scheme 21a). (276) One of the key steps involves an intramolecular C−H bond activation process, α-H transfer, to transform the bis-alkylidene into an alkyl alkylidyne fragment. Experimental and theoretical studies point toward two possible grafting processes: (i) isomerization of [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2] into [Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] upon coordination of a surface silanol through α-H transfers followed by σ-bond metathesis or (ii) grafting via σ-bond metathesis followed by isomerization of the metal fragment. This is in sharp contrast with the grafting of the corresponding alkylidyne complexes [M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] of d0 metals (M = Mo and W), which takes place via σ-bond metathesis without isomerization of the metal fragment (Scheme 21b). (67, 277, 278)
Scheme 20
Scheme 20. Formation of Alkylidene from Bis-alkyl Surface Species via: (a) Addition of an O−H on the Alkylidene Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, (b) σ-Bond Metathesis, (c) Addition of an O−H on a Nitrido Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, and (c) Formation of a Bis-alkyl Species Followed by α-H Abstraction
Scheme 21
Scheme 21. Grafting of (a) [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2] on SiO2-(700), Yielding [(≡SiO)Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2], and of (b) [M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] on Silica or Alumina, Yielding [(EO)M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] (M = Mo or W; R = tBu; and E = Si or Al of Silica or Alumina Surfaces)
Intramolecular C−H bond activation processes can also explain some deactivation processes of well-defined single-site supported catalysts. For instance, one deactivation pathway of supported alkene polymerization catalyst based on lanthanides and actinides probably is due to the activation of the allylic C−H bond in place of insertion of propene, thus yielding inactive π-allyl surface complexes (Scheme 22a). (66, 279, 280) More recently, it was shown that C−H bond activation could lead to the deactivation of silica supported alkene metathesis catalysts. (281) From kinetic and in situ spectroscopic studies in combination with calculations, it was shown that the well-defined silica supported Re-based alkene metathesis catalyst decomposed, leading to degrafting, and that this process is first order in ethene. The key step of this process probably involved the activation of the C−H bond in the β-position of the metallacyclobutane intermediates, a β-H transfer process (Scheme 22b). The resulting allyl hydride intermediate could then react with ethene to form a highly reactive species, which could either regenerate the catalyst via α-H abstraction between two adjacent alkyl ligands or degraft via abstraction of the β-H of the ethyl fragment by the siloxy ligand (β-H abstraction).
Scheme 22
Scheme 22. (a) Deactivation of Polymerization Catalysts by Formation of π-Allyl Species; (b) Deactivation of Alkene Metathesis Catalysts by Decomposition of Metallacyclobutane Intermediates (e.g. the Well-Defined Silica Supported Re Alkylidene Complex); and (c) H/D Exchange via Chain Walking
Additionally, β-H transfer can also lead to side reactions in hydrogenation with d0 metal-based supported (66, 242, 279, 280, 282, 283) and homogeneous catalysts. (284-286) In the latter case, it was shown that β-H transfer can become competitive with hydrogenolysis under low pressure of H2. This led to chain walking, as evidenced by the incorporation of deuterium at various positions of the alkyl chain when the reaction was performed with D2 in place of H2 (Scheme 22c).
Alkane Hydrogenolysis
The hydrogenolysis of alkanes and paraffins occurs catalytically at low temperatures on metal hydrides supported on various oxides, e.g. silica, silica−alumina, or alumina. In the case of group 4 metals and particularly Zr, based on selectivities at low conversions and the final product distribution (Table 2 and Scheme 23a, e.g. alkane = propane), the hydrogenolysis of alkanes has been proposed to take place with the following key steps: C−H bond activation of the alkane via σ-bond metathesis (vide supra), C−C bond activation via β-alkyl transfer, hydrogenolysis of the M−C bond, and hydrogenation of the alkene (composed of two elementary steps, insertion and hydrogenolysis, Scheme 23b). (229, 230, 232, 287-289) In order to account for the absence of alkenes and the relatively low reaction temperatures, an alternative pathway has been proposed from calculations based on the bis-hydride surface species, which avoids the high endothermic formation of alkene intermediates, a relatively thermodynamically disfavored process (Scheme 23c). (229, 230) It is clear, however, that β-alkyl transfer is the key C−C bond cleavage step, and this is further supported by the observed lack of hydrogenolysis activities toward ethane, for which the corresponding alkyl surface species (ethyl) does not possess a β−C-C bond. Moreover, cyclic alkanes having less than seven carbons (n < 1) do not undergo hydrogenolysis, which illustrates the requirement of a syn-coplanar arrangement of the M−C and C−C bonds in the β-alkyl transfer transition states (Scheme 23d). (290) Using other supports (silica−alumina (288) and alumina (291)) and group 4 metals (Ti (292) and Hf (293)) does not greatly affect the rate and the product distribution, which shows that β-alkyl transfer is a general C−C bond cleavage process for d0 group 4 metals.
Table 2. Hydrogenolysis of Alkanes Catalyzed by Zirconium Hydride Supported on Silica: Activity and Product Distribution
reactant activitya initial product selectivity final product selectivity
ethane 0    
propane 70 CH4 (50%) CH4 (50%)
    C2H6 (50%) C2H6 (50%)
2-methylpropane 70 CH4 (52%) CH4 (67%)
    C3H8 (47%)b C2H6 (33%)
butane 66 CH4 (23%) CH4 (60%)
    C2H6 (54%) C2H6 (40%)
    C3H8 (20%)  
2,2-dimethylpropane 66 CH4 (54%) CH4 (75%)
    C4H10 (40%)c C2H6 (25%)
2,2-dimethylbutane d other alkanes (90%) d
    neo-C5H12 (<0.2%)  
    iso-C5H12 (10%)  
    n-C5H12 (<0.2%)  
3-methylpentane 36 CH4 (23%) d
    C2H6 (32%)  
    n-C4H10 (27%)  
    i-C5H12 (3%)  
    n-C5H12 (12%)  
aActivity defined as the number of turnovers per hour at low conversions.
bEthane (1.5%).
cPropane (5%) and ethane (1%).
dNot determined.
Scheme 23
Scheme 23. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Zr−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Steps for Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) a Bis-hydrides (R = CH3 for Propane). (d) β-Alkyl Transfer for M-Cycloalkyl Intermediates
It is noteworthy that this reaction can be extended to very long chain alkanes (C36) and polymers, and in fact, supported Zr hydrides can readily polymerize ethene and then depolymerize the thus-formed polyethylene under H2. (232, 288) For the hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes, the observed selectivities (Table 2) showed that C−C bond cleavage is statistical and occurs at similar rates from primary or secondary alkyl Zr species; for example, the ratio of ethane/(propane + methane) ≈ 2 (Scheme 24a). On the other hand, it is disfavored from tertiary alkyl Zr species, as evidenced by the low selectivity in isopentane in the hydrogenolysis of 3-methylpentane (Table 2 and Scheme 24b). (255)
Scheme 24
Scheme 24. Possible Product Formation in the Hydrogenolysis of (a) Butane and (b) 3-Methylpentane
Hydrogenolysis of alkanes is also catalyzed at low temperatures by silica supported tantalum hydrides, but the observed selectivities at low conversions and the final product distribution are very different (Table 3 and Scheme 25a). Moreover, the possibility of catalyzing the hydrogenolysis of ethane clearly shows that β-alkyl transfer cannot be the key C−C bond cleavage step in this case. (294) Here, based on these observations and calculations, the C−C bond activation step is the α-alkyl transfer, (295) and the elementary steps of hydrogenolysis are as follows: C−H bond activation, probably on a TaV trishydride species, via σ-bond metathesis, C−C bond cleavage through α-alkyl transfer, and hydrogenolysis (Scheme 25b−c). (296)
Table 3. Hydrogenolysis of Alkanes Catalyzed by Tantalum Hydride Supported on Silica: Activity and Product Distribution
reactant activitya initial product selectivity final product selectivity
ethane 30 CH4 (100%) CH4 (100%)
propane 12 CH4 (55%) CH4 (100%)
    C2H6 (45%)  
2-methylpropane 24 CH4 (55%) CH4 (100%)
    C2H6 (10%)  
    C3H8 (35%)  
butane 18 CH4 (42%) CH4 (100%)
    C2H6 (38%)  
    C3H8 (20%)  
2,2-dimethylpropane 6 b CH4 (100%)
2,2-dimethylbutane c other alkanes (68%) c
    neo-C5H12 (31%)  
    iso-C5H12 (1%)  
    n-C5H12 (<0.2%)  
aActivity defined as the number of turnovers per hour at low conversions.
bNo selectivity at low conversion can be reported due to the competitive hydrogenolysis of 2-methylpropane.
cNot determine.
Scheme 25
Scheme 25. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Ta−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) Tris-hydride Active Sites (R = CH3 for Propane)
Moreover, various cyclic alkanes, methylcyclopentane, cyclohexane, and cycloheptane, with the exception of cyclopentane also undergo hydrogenolysis with this catalyst, albeit with much lower rates and number of turnovers. (238) Here cyclic alkanes yield lower cyclic homologues: conversion of cyclohexane into methylcyclopentane and cyclopentane, and that of cycloheptane into methylcyclohexane and cyclohexane. It has been proposed that the key step probably involved, after the formation of the cycloalkyl derivatives via C−H bond activation, a γ-H activation (Scheme 26). This yields a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps, e.g. hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement, to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. The low activity of the catalyst is probably due to the formation of cyclopentane, detected in all cases, which upon C−H bond activation evolved toward cyclopentadienyl surface species (vide supra, section ).
Scheme 26
Scheme 26. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Hydrogenolysis of Cyclic Alkanes with Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides: (A) Initial C−H Bond Activation and C−C Bond Cleavage and (B) Formation of Products
Alkane Metathesis
In 1997, Vidal et al. found that acyclic alkanes (CnH2n+2) are catalytically transformed into their lower and higher homologues (Cn−iH2(n−i)+2 and Cn+iH2(n+i)+2) in the absence of hydrogen by the silica supported tantalum hydrides (Scheme 27a−b). (297, 298) Detailed mechanistic studies using different types of Ta-based catalyst precursors (251, 252) and kinetic studies in flow reactors (299) showed that alkenes were primary products and that the key C−C bond cleavage and formation steps corresponded to those involved in alkene metathesis, i.e. [2 + 2]-cycloaddition and cycloreversion (vide supra). (300-303) Several mechanistic schemes are possible, involving either two sites or one site, and they involve well-known steps of molecular organometallic chemistry.
Scheme 27
Scheme 27. (a) General Equation for the Reaction of Alkane Metathesis; (b) Major Products in Alkane Metathesis; (c) Proposed Two-Site Mechanism for the Catalytic Metathesis of Alkanes (Only One of the Two Possible Metallacyclobutanes Is Represented); (d) Selected Catalyst Precursors (See Table 4 for Details)
First, the two-site mechanism is proposed to involve tantalum hydrides as key intermediates (Scheme 27c). After a first C−H bond activation to form H2 and Ta-alkyl surface species, one site generates an alkene via a β-H transfer, thus regenerating tantalum hydrides; the other site evolves toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via an α-H transfer. (304) The alkene, generated by the first site, then undergoes a homologation process on the second site, which leads to a different alkene and alkylidene species. Subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps provide a way to liberate the lower and higher alkane homologues. The selectivity in higher homologues, i.e. the presence of mainly n − 1 and n + 1 linear homologues, is fully consistent with the fact that alkene metathesis is the key homologation process and that 1-alkenes are mainly participating in the homologation process, (252, 298, 299) in contrast to the catalytic alkane metathesis processes based on mixtures of alkene metathesis and dehydrogenation/hydrogenation catalysts, where a broad distribution of lower and higher homologues are generated, as a result of the cross-metathesis of a broad range of alkene intermediates and, in particular, internal ones. (298, 305-309)
Second, the one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, which are formed in situ from either silica supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes (Scheme 28). (251, 252) In this case, the formation and the conversion of the alkene intermediates take place within the coordination sphere of the metal center, as shown previously for the formation of cross-metathesis products, resulting from the reaction of an alkane and a neopentyl neopentylidene surface complex (Scheme 19, R1 = R2 = CH2R).
Scheme 28
Scheme 28. Formation of Alkyl Alkylidene Intermediates from Tantalum Hydrides
Both mechanisms are based on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride as a key intermediate. Today, several catalysts have been developed on the basis of well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes (Table 4 and Scheme 27d):
Tantalum hydrides prepared on various oxide supports: silica−alumina, alumina, and tailored made supports (entries 1−4), (262, 310) but they display similar activities and selectivities with the original silica supported tantalum hydrides.
Tungsten hydrides supported on oxide supports (entries 5−7); (260-262) while the silica supported system is a poor catalyst because of the lack of stability of the tungsten hydrides, the silica−alumina and alumina supported tungsten hydrides are more stable and selective than the corresponding tantalum hydrides.
Well-defined silica supported metal alkyl alkylidene catalyst precursors; those based on Ta display similar selectivity to that of the parent tantalum hydrides but are slightly less productive (entries 8−10); (251, 252) those based on Mo imido complexes have similar activity to that of the parent silica supported tantalum hydrides but higher selectivities (entry 11). (253, 254) In the latter type of catalysts, it was clearly shown that both the alkylidene and the alkyl ligands were necessary to obtain catalytic activity in alkane metathesis, because the corresponding alkylidene amido complexes are inactive despite their much higher performances as alkene metathesis catalyst precursors (entry 12). (311, 312) Note that Re alkyl alkylidene complexes are also active (entry 13), (254) but with much lower performances, probably because of their higher instability. (281) Overall, detailed investigations on these types of catalysts are consistent with a one-site mechanism and show that deactivation of these systems is probably due to degrafting (vide infra, Section 3.1.3), (254) preventing regeneration under H2 as performed on the hydride based catalysts.
Well-defined alkyl alkylidyne surface complexes of W, which are highly active alkene metathesis catalysts, (278, 313, 314) can also be used as alkane metathesis catalyst precursors (entries 14−16). While the silica supported system is inactive, probably because of a fast decomposition, the silica−alumina and alumina supported systems display activities comparable to those of the corresponding tantalum alkyl alkylidene systems (entries 8−10) and a greater selectivity for n − 1 and n + 1 homologues (entries 6−7). Overall, the current best reported catalysts are based on alumina or silica−alumina supported tungsten hydrides.
Alkane metathesis can also be used to make highly branched alkanes. For instance, the alumina supported tungsten hydrides convert selectively and catalytically 2-methylpropane into 2,3-dimethylbutane (42%) and ethane (41%) (Scheme 29a). (315) Despite the transfer of two carbons in place of one, as usually observed previously, this selectively can be explained using the same mechanism and the same alkylidene hydride intermediates (Scheme 29b). Finally, it is also possible to carry out alkane cross-metathesis processes. For instance, ethane/toluene mixtures are catalytically converted into a mixture of ethylbenzene and xylenes by the silica supported tantalum hydride (Scheme 29c). (316) This shows that both Csp3 and Csp2 can be involved in the alkane metathesis process. Note that Csp2 functionalization probably involves a different type of mechanism; one possibility is the Csp2-H activation on alkylidene or alkylidyne intermediates followed by an α-alkyl migration and subsequent C−H bond activation and hydrogenolysis steps to form higher alkane homologues and regenerate the active species (vide infra, Section and Scheme 31c).
Table 4. Comparison of Catalyst Precursors in the Metathesis of Propane at 150 °C after 120 h
entry catalyst precursorsa TONb selectivities/%
C1 C2 C4c C5c C6
1 Ta−H/SiO2 60 10 46 37 7 traces
    (3.5)     (5.1) (2.2)  
2 Ta−H/SiO2−Al2O3 59 11.5 46.5 35.5 6.0 traces
    (4)     (4.1) (2.2)  
3 Ta−H/Al2O3 60 9.5 47.5 36.5 6.0 traces
    (2.5)     (8.6) (4.5)  
4 Ta−H/SiO2−Zr 100 10 46 37 7 traces
    (3)          
5 W−H/SiO2 8 5.5 56.0 32 6.5 traces
    (−)     (10.4) (3.6)  
6 W−H/SiO2−Al2O3 123 2.0 58.0 32.0 6.5 1.5
    (8.5)     (6.7) (3.7)  
7 W−H/Al2O3 121 2.5 57.5 33.0 6.5 1.5
    (8.5)     (7.8) (3.8)  
8 SiSOTa(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 35 13 47.5 32.5 6.0 1d
    (3)     (0.5) (1.4)  
9 SiAlOTa(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 33 10.5 47.0 35.0 6.5 1d
    (−)     (3.8) (2.3)  
10 AlSOTa(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 34 5.0 52.0 38.0 4.5 traces
    (−)     (7.0) (3.5)  
11 SiSOMo(≡NR)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) 55 <0.2 56.0 38.0 6.0 0.5
    (1.1)     (13) (7.4)  
12 SiSOMo(≡NR)(=CHtBu)(NR2) <1 − − − − −
                13 SiSORe(≡CR)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) 13 3.5 56.0 39 4.0 traces
    (0.3)     (3.1) (1.6)  
14 SiSOW(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 <1 − − − − −
                15 SiAlOW(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 29 1.5 61.5 29 7 1
    (0.7)     (7.5) (4.2)  
16 AlSOW(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 28 2.5 65.5 24 7 1
    (1.8)     (7.1) (3.3)  
17 (SiSO)2Zr(H)2 60 23 39 24 4.8 3.6e
          (0.5) (1)  
18 (SiSO)2Zr(CH2tBu)2 − 30.5 42.3 12.7 5.7 −
aThe names of the catalysts have been simplified as follows: M−H/oxide in entries 1−7 refers to oxide supported metal hydrides, and the chemical formula in entries 8−16 gives the structure of the surface complexes with SiS, SiAl, and AlS referring to the siloxy group of a silica surface, the siloxy group of a silica−alumina surface, and the Al group of an alumina surface, respectively.
bTONs are here defined as the number of equivalents of propane converted per total metal after 120 h. Values in parentheses correspond to initial rates in TON/h.
cFor butanes and pentanes, the two numbers correspond in order to the selectivities of n- and i-isomers.
dIn these cases, additional products, corresponding to cross-metathesis products, are obtained: 2,2-dimethylpropane (tBuCH2−H), 2,2-dimethylbutane (tBuCH2−CH3), and 2,2-dimethylpentane (tBuCH2−C2H5); no tBuCH2−C3H7 is detected (<0.1%); see Table 1.
eSelectivities in the sum of C6 to C10 compounds.
Scheme 29
Scheme 29. (a) Metathesis of 2-Methylpropane; (b) Key Carbon−Carbon Bond Forming Steps from the Metallocarbene Hydride Intermediates; (c) Cross-metathesis of Ethane and Toluene
Moreover, while silica or silica−alumina supported zirconium hydrides or alkyl do not display any catalytic activity in alkane metathesis under standard conditions (150 °C and ca. 1 bar), they catalytically convert propane into higher and lower homologues under supercritical conditions (Table 4, entries 17−18). (317) However, the product selectivity and distribution are very different from catalysts based on group 5 and 6 metals: formation of mainly branched products up to decanes with a relatively high selectivity in isobutane along with methane and ethane. Here it is proposed that propane homologation takes place on a bis-hydride surface species and involves the following elementary steps (Scheme 30): (1) formation of a bis-alkyl intermediate [Zr(n-Pr)2] via two σ-bond metathesis steps, (2) an homologation process yielding [Zr(C2H5)(i-Bu)] via successive β-alkyl transfer intramolecular H-transfer and insertion, and (3) regeneration of Zr(H)2 and formation of ethane and isobutane via hydrogenolysis (σ-bond metathesis of M-C by H2).
Scheme 30
Scheme 30. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Homologation of Alkanes by Oxide Supported Zirconium Hydrides
Catalytic Conversion of Methane
Alkane metathesis converts a given alkane into its lower and higher homologues, and in particular two ethane molecules into methane and propane. The reverse reaction implies a cross-metathesis reaction with methane and its incorporation into higher alkanes, e.g. methane and propane giving two ethane molecules. This reaction is slightly endothermic independently of temperature (ca. 10 kJ/mol), but using a large excess of methane, propane was catalytically and quantitatively converted into ethane (2 ethane molecules per converted propane) using the silica supported tantalum hydrides, probably via the same elementary steps of alkane metathesis (Scheme 31a). (318)
Scheme 31
Scheme 31. Catalytic Conversions of Methane via (a) Cross-metathesis with Propane, (b) Nonoxidative Coupling, (c) C−C Bond Formation in Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane, and (d) Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane and Benzene
With the same tantalum hydride catalyst, but in the absence of other alkanes, methane can also be catalytically converted into an equimolar mixture of ethane and H2, which corresponds to the reaction of nonoxidative coupling (Scheme 31b). (206) This reaction is however highly endothermic and leads to very low conversions (ca. 0.1 and 0.2 at 300 and 375 °C, respectively). A possible mechanism involved the C−H bond activation of methane (R = CH3 in Scheme 31c) on metal−methylidene or methylidyne intermediates; (263-265) this generates an alkyl alkylidene species, which can rearrange via α-alkyl transfer into a Ta-CH2R. The catalytic cycle is then close upon reaction with methane, which liberates RCH3 and regenerates Ta-CH3. In the presence of benzene, coupling also takes place but leads to the selective formation of toluene and H2 (Scheme 31d), and the mechanism can take place similarly to methane replacing R = CH3 by R = Ph in the catalytic cycle. (319)
Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
C−H bond activation of alkanes readily takes place on isolated metal centers bound to, or present on, oxide surfaces to form organometallic intermediates, and this corresponds to the key steps of numerous catalytic processes: H/D-exchange reactions, alkane hydrogenolysis and metathesis, alkane dehydrogenation, conversion of alkane into aromatics, as well as the cross-metathesis of methane and alkanes or nonoxidative coupling of methane.
First, C−H bond activation and the formation of M−alkyl species occur on M−O, M−H, and M−C bonds via σ-bond metathesis and on M−alkylidene and M−alkylidyne bonds via addition reactions, an elementary step whose transition state resembles that of a σ-bond metathesis. In contrast to molecular organometallic chemistry, C−H bond activation via oxidative addition is only rarely encountered for these systems, with one reason being that metal centers belong to main group and early transition metals, usually in their higher oxidation states. Systems based on late transition metals, e.g. group VIII, are mainly found as particles, which were not discussed here.
Second, intramolecular C−H bond activation is also important in many catalytic processes. First, it is one of the processes which allows the formation of surface alkylidene and alkylidyne intermediates via α-H abstraction on bis-alkyl or alkyl−alkylidene species, respectively. Second, related elementary steps such as β-H abstraction and β-H transfer are also important in deactivation (degrafting) and chain transfer (alkane homologation) processes, respectively. Finally, a specific case is β-H transfer, which is the key step of (i) a chain walking mechanism, an important reaction in hydrogenation, polymerization, alkane hydrogenolysis, and possibly alkane metathesis, and (ii) deactivation mechanisms of alkene and alkane metathesis catalysts. Additionally, one should note that, in contrast to molecular organometallic chemistry, C−C bond activation is often encountered in surface chemistry, including in catalytic processes (alkane hydrogenolysis and metathesis), and this is probably due to the possibility to explore the reactivity of these surface species at higher temperatures than those for the homologous molecular complexes because surfaces and, in particular, site isolation allow the access to highly reactive—yet stable—intermediates. (320) Nonetheless, these C−C bond activation processes take place via known elementary steps of molecular organometallic chemistry (and related to those of C−H bond activation), i.e. mainly via α- and β-alkyl transfer processes, with the corresponding reverse elementary steps allowing the formation of C−C bonds and chain growth. No intermolecular C−C bond activation has been observed so far on these systems. This again shows the difference between isolated sites in high oxidation states and metal ensembles present at the surface of metal particles.
Third, it is also noteworthy that the surface chemistry and particularly C−H bond activation processes are very similar for bulk oxides and M-exchange zeolites, and this is probably an evidence for common structural features of active sites for these systems. For instance, it is possible that the structures of the defect sites in oxides are closely related to those of the active site Al and M sites of H-zeolites and M-exchange zeolites, respectively. Given the diversity of zeolite structures, it should be possible to control the nature, the density, and the accessibility of those active sites and thereby to obtain single-site catalysts. Moreover, the C−H bond activation of alkanes on the reactive sites of oxides and zeolites, which are based on main group or group 10 metals (Al, Ga, and Zn), corresponds to a σ-bond metathesis, like for single-site catalysts based on early transition metals. The analogy between the reactivity of single-site catalysts, isolated ions in metal oxides and M-exchange zeolites, shows that research effort should also be directed in bridging the gap between these systems, for instance by designing well-defined active sites bound to or incorporated in the structure of zeolites as a way to generate robust single-site catalysts. (321-324)
In contrast, under oxidative conditions (molecular oxygen or N2O), the C−H bond activation processes are more complex; they typically involve a H-abstraction and radical-type mechanism. In fact, in some cases when high operating temperatures are used (above 500 °C), the uncatalyzed and unselective gas phase reactions can become dominant. Therefore, metal-alkyl species are often not key reaction intermediates, even if they can be detected in some cases, probably as dormant species. Yet, such radical processes can lead to highly selective transformation in specific cases, such as the oxidation of butane into maleic anhydride. However, such cases are limited to specific substrates, and these reactions lead to otherwise low yields (low selectivity at high conversions or high selectivity at low conversion).
Overall, the level of molecular understanding of “single-site” heterogeneous catalysts in terms of structure of the active sites and reaction mechanism is close to that obtained for homogeneous systems. The detailed description of these systems has in turn been used to develop rational approaches to improve catalysts (design) and to also discover novel alkane (including methane) homologation processes. There are however open questions regarding the so-called “single-site” catalysts: what is the effect of adjacent oxygen functionalities on structure and reactivity (local environment; are they truly “single-site”?), what is the stability of these systems (deactivation, regeneration, ...), can they be used in more complex reactions involving for instance molecular oxygen (vide infra)?
In contrast, obtaining a detailed mechanistic understanding for the activation of alkanes on metal oxides or zeolites has been difficult and still requires a large research effort, despite many recent advances. This is due in large part to the difficulty to attain a molecular understanding of the active sites. One approach to bridge the gap between “single-site” catalysts and these systems is to improve characterization techniques, (325-333) in particular by combining advanced spectroscopic and computational studies. This requires looking at the pristine material as well as the material under working conditions (operando techniques). The thus-obtained detailed understanding of active site structures can in turn assist with design of new materials, in particular highly crystalline materials with defined chemical structures, with a control of the density of so-called “defect sites”, with a defined location of sites inside the oxide matrices.... (334-337) In the case of oxidative reaction processes, extra difficulties can be pointed out: very complex reaction mechanisms involving multielectron oxidation processes and molecular oxygen as well as radical or radical-like intermediates, oxide-based catalysts involving complex compositions and active site structures.... Here, despite years of research and promising industrial processes, a better molecular understanding of active sites and reaction mechanisms is probably critical to expect major advances in catalyst design. Major breakthroughs could originate from a deeper understanding of C—H bond activation processes on M═O or M—O active sites with the aim to trigger C—H bond as well as O2 activation at lower temperatures on metal oxides or supported metal oxides. This would assist with the design of more selective metal-based catalysts and avoid the unselective gas phase reaction processes. This also calls for a better control of the formation of active species on oxide surfaces, and one possible approach is the controlled reaction of well-defined oxide precursors including polyoxometallates. (338-340)
This review also shows that the isolated metal centers of surfaces can display unusual reactivities when compared to molecular organometallic chemistry, even if they actually obey the same rules (elementary steps)! Their reactivity is by and large due to site isolation on surfaces, which can help stabilize reactive intermediates and which allow unusual structures, e.g. low coordination, as well as the use of higher temperatures. Looking more closely at these systems can probably provide new ideas in molecular chemistry in a similar way as Nature has inspired us to design homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts. (341-343)
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Christophe Coperet - Université de Lyon, Institut de Chimie de Lyon, C2P2, UMR 5265 (CNRS-CPE—Université Lyon 1), CPE Lyon F308, 43 Boulevard du 11 Novembre 1918, F-69616 Villeurbanne Cedex, France;  Email: coperet@cpe.fr
Biography
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Christophe Coperet
Christophe Copéret graduated from CPE Lyon in 1992 (Lyon, France) and obtained a PhD in chemistry in 1996 from Purdue University (West Lafayette, USA) under the guidance of Prof. E. Negishi. After a postdoctoral position in the group of Prof. K. B. Sharpless at the Scripps Research Institute, he accepted a CNRS position in 1998 in the Laboratoire de Chimie Organométallique de Surface, and he was promoted in 2008 as a CNRS research director. His research interests are at the frontier of organometallic and material chemistry, catalysis, solid state NMR spectroscopy and computational chemistry with the aim to design and develop - via a molecular approach - functional materials with applications in catalysis, bioimaging and microelectronics.
5 Acknowledgment
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
C.C. would like to thank CNRS, CPE Lyon, and Université Lyon 1 for continuous support. C.C. is grateful to numerous students and research colleagues, in particular J.-M. Basset, D. Soulivong, M. Taoufik, C. Thieuleux, and J. Thivolle-Cazat, with whom he has had discussions over the years in the area of alkane chemistry. Special thanks are directed toward Dr. E. Pidko and Prof. R. van Santen for providing references in press or prior to publication as well as for Figures 1 and 2.
6 References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 343 other publications.
1Crabtree, R. H. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 2001, 2437[Crossref], Google Scholar
2Arakawa, H., Aresta, M., Armor, J. N., Barteau, M. A., Beckman, E. J., Bell, A. T., Bercaw, J. E., Creutz, C., Dinjus, E., Dixon, D. A., Domen, K., DuBois, D. L., Eckert, J., Fujita, E., Gibson, D. H., Goddard, W. A., Goodman, D. W., Keller, J., Kubas, G. J., Kung, H. H., Lyons, J. E., Manzer, L. E., Marks, T. J., Morokuma, K., Nicholas, K. M., Periana, R., Que, L., Rostrup-Nielson, J., Sachtler, W. M. H., Schmidt, L. D., Sen, A., Somorjai, G. A., Stair, P. C., Stults, B. R., and Tumas, W. Chem. Rev. 2001, 101, 953[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
3Olah, G. A. and Molnar, A. Hydrocarbon Chemistry, 2nd ed.; Wiley Interscience: 2003.[Crossref], Google Scholar
4Arndtsen, B. A., Bergman, R. G., Mobley, T. A., and Peterson, T. H. Acc. Chem. Res. 1995, 28, 154[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
5Labinger, J. A. and Bercaw, J. E. Nature 2002, 417, 507[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
6Matsumoto, T., Taube, D. J., Periana, R. A., Taube, H., and Yoshida, H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 7414[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
7Kakiuchi, F. and Chatani, N. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
8Chen, H. Y., Schlecht, S., Semple, T. C., and Hartwig, J. F. Science 2000, 287, 1995[Crossref], Google Scholar
9Hartwig, J. F. Nature 2008, 455, 314[Crossref], Google Scholar
10Periana, R. A., Taube, D. J., Evitt, E. R., Loffler, D. G., Wentrcek, P. R., Voss, G., and Masuda, T. Science 1993, 259, 340[Crossref], Google Scholar
11Periana, R. A., Taube, D. J., Gamble, S., Taube, H., Satoh, T., and Fujii, H. Science 1998, 280, 560[Crossref], Google Scholar
12Bar-Nahum, I., Khenkin, A. M., and Neumann, R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 10236[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
13Sorokin, A. B., Kudrik, E. V., and Bouchu, D. Chem. Commun. 2008, 2562[Crossref], Google Scholar
14Cavani, F. and Trifiro, F. Catal. 1994, 11, 246[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
15Albonetti, S., Cavani, F., and Trifiro, F. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 1996, 38, 413[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
16Cavani, F. and Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 561[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
17Cavani, F. and Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1995, 24, 307[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
18Weckhuysen, B. M. and Schoonheydt, R. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 223[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
19Ono, Y. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 1992, 34, 179[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
20Biscardi, J. A. and Iglesia, E. Catal. Today 1996, 31, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
21Fricke, R., Kosslick, H., Lischke, G., and Richter, M. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100, 2303[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
22Hagen, A. and Roessner, F. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2000, 42, 403[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
23Caeiro, G., Carvalho, R. H., Wang, X., Lemos, M., Lemos, F., Guisnet, M., and Ribeiro, F. R. J. Mol. Catal. A 2006, 255, 131[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
24Bhan, A. and Delgass, W. N. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2008, 50, 19[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
25Corma, A. and Garcia, H. Chem. Rev. 2002, 102, 3837[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
26Corma, A. J. Catal. 2003, 216, 298[Crossref], Google Scholar
27Feller, A. and Lercher, J. A. Adv. Catal. 2004, 48, 229[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Gault, F. G. Adv. Catal. 1981, 30, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Garin, F. and Maire, G. Acc. Chem. Res. 1989, 22, 100[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
30Zaera, F., Gellman, A. J., and Somorjai, G. A. Acc. Chem. Res. 1986, 19, 24[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
31Zaera, F. Acc. Chem. Res. 1992, 25, 260[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
32Zaera, F. Chem. Rev. 1995, 95, 2651[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
33Zaera, F. Catal. Lett. 2003, 91, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
34Somorjai, G. A. and Park, J. Y. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 2155[Crossref], Google Scholar
35Norskov, J. K., Bligaard, T., Hvolbaek, B., Abild-Pedersen, F., Chorkendorff, I., and Christensen, C. H. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 2163[Crossref], Google Scholar
36Hargreaves, J. S. J., Hutchings, G. J., Joyner, R. W., and Taylor, S. H. Chem. Commun. 1996, 523[Crossref], Google Scholar
37Hargreaves, J. S. J., Hutchings, G. J., Joyner, R. W., and Taylor, S. H. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 227, 191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
38Harrison, D. L., Nicholls, D., and Steiner, H. J. Catal. 1967, 7, 359[Crossref], Google Scholar
39Chang, C. C. and Kokes, R. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1971, 93, 7107[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
40Chang, C. C., Dixon, L. T., and Kokes, R. J. J. Phys. Chem. 1973, 77, 2634[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
41Conner, W. C., Jr. and Kokes, R. J. J. Catal. 1975, 36, 199[Crossref], Google Scholar
42Dowden, D. A., Mackenzie, N., and Trapnell, B. M. W. Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A 1956, 237, 245[Crossref], Google Scholar
43Trokhimets, A. I. and Markevich, S. B. Zh. Fiz. Khim. 1964, 38, 1293[CAS], Google Scholar
44Larson, J. G. and Hall, W. K. J. Phys. Chem. 1965, 69, 3080[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
45McCosh, R. and Kemball, C. J. Chem. Soc. A 1968, 1555[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
46Flockhart, B. D., Uppal, S. S., and Pink, R. C. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1971, 67, 513[Crossref], Google Scholar
47Saunders, P. C. and Hightowe, J. w. J. Phys. Chem. 1970, 74, 4323[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
48Amenomiya, Y. J. Catal. 1971, 22, 109[Crossref], Google Scholar
49Robertson, P. J., Scurrell, M. S., and Kemball, C. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1975, 71, 903[Crossref], Google Scholar
50Scurrell, M. S. and Kemball, C. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1 1976, 72, 818[Crossref], Google Scholar
51Lunsford, J. H., Zingery, L. W., and Rosynek, M. P. J. Catal. 1975, 38, 179[Crossref], Google Scholar
52Utiyama, M., Hattori, H., and Tanabe, K. J. Catal. 1978, 53, 237[Crossref], Google Scholar
53Baumgarten, E. and Zachos, A. J. Catal. 1981, 69, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
54Utiyama, M., Hattori, H., and Tanabe, K. Bull. Soc. Chem. Jpn. 1981, 54, 2521[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
55Quanzhi, L. I. and Amenomiya, Y. Appl. Catal. 1986, 23, 173[Crossref], Google Scholar
56Capitan, M. J., Odriozola, J. A., Marquez, A., and Sanz, J. F. J. Catal. 1995, 156, 273[Crossref], Google Scholar
57Farcasiu, D. and Lukinskas, P. Chem. Commun. 2001, 77[Crossref], Google Scholar
58Farcasiu, D. and Lukinskas, P. J. Phys. Chem. A 2002, 106, 1619[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
59Engelhardt, J. and Valyon, J. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2001, 74, 217[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Joubert, J., Salameh, A., Krakoviack, V., Delbecq, F., Sautet, P., Copéret, C., and Basset, J. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 23944[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
Joubert, J., Delbecq, F., and Sautet, P. J. Catal. 2007, 251, 507[Crossref], Google Scholar
61Haller, L. J. L., Page, M. J., Macgregor, S. A., Mahon, M. F., and Whittlesey, M. K. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 4604[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
Boutadla, Y., Davies, D. L., Macgregor, S. A., and Poblador-Bahamonde, A. I. Dalton Trans. 2009, 5820[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
62Cai, S., Chihaia, V., and Sohlberg, K. J. Mol. Catal. A 2007, 275, 63[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
63Valyon, J., Engelhardt, J., Kallo, D., and Hegedus, M. Catal. Lett. 2002, 82, 29[Crossref], Google Scholar
64Ballard, D. G. H. J. Polym. Sci., Part A 1975, 13, 2191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
65Burwell, R. L., Jr. J. Catal. 1984, 86, 301[Crossref], Google Scholar
66Marks, T. J. Acc. Chem. Res. 1992, 25, 57[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
67Joubert, J., Delbecq, F., Sautet, P., Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Thieuleux, C., Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 9157[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
68Salameh, A., Joubert, J., Baudouin, A., Lukens, W., Delbecq, F., Sautet, P., Basset, J. M., and Copéret, C. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 3870[Crossref], Google Scholar
69Salameh, A., Baudouin, A., Soulivong, D., Boehm, V., Roeper, M., Basset, J.-M., and Copéret, C. J. Catal. 2008, 253, 180[Crossref], Google Scholar
70Salameh, A., Baudouin, A., Basset, J.-M., and Coperet, C. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 2117[Crossref], Google Scholar
71Herrmann, W. A., Wagner, W., Flessner, U. N., Vokhardt, U., and Komber, H. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1991, 30, 1636[Crossref], Google Scholar
72Rost, A. M. J., Schneider, H., Zoller, J. P., Herrmann, W. A., and Kuehn, F. E. J. Organomet. Chem. 2005, 690, 4712[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
73Buffon, R., Choplin, A., Leconte, M., Basset, J. M., Touroude, R., and Herrmann, W. A. J. Mol. Catal. 1992, 72, L7[Crossref], Google Scholar
74Malek, A. and Ozin, G. Adv. Mater. 1995, 7, 160[Crossref], Google Scholar
75He, M. Y., Burwell, R. L., and Marks, T. J. Organometallics 1983, 2, 566[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
76He, M. Y., Xiong, G. X., Toscano, P. J., Burwell, R. L., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 641[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
77Gnep, N. S., Doyemet, J. Y., Seco, A. M., Ribeiro, F. R., and Guisnet, M. Appl. Catal. 1988, 43, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
78Meriaudeau, P. and Naccache, C. J. Mol. Catal. 1990, 59, L31[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
79Sulikowski, B., Olejniczak, Z., and Corberan, V. C. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 10323[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
80Nakagawa, K., Okamura, M., Ikenaga, N., Suzuki, T., and Kobayashi, T. Chem. Commun. 1998, 1025[Crossref], Google Scholar
81Nakagawa, K., Kajita, C., Ide, Y., Okamura, M., Kato, S., Kasuya, H., Ikenaga, N., Kobayashi, T., and Suzuki, T. Catal. Lett. 2000, 64, 215[Crossref], Google Scholar
82Michorczyk, P. and Ogonowski, J. React. Kinet. Catat. Lett. 2003, 78, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
83Chen, M., Xu, J., Su, F. Z., Liu, Y. M., Cao, Y., He, H. Y., and Fan, K. N. J .Catal. 2008, 256, 293[Crossref], Google Scholar
84Michorczyk, P. and Ogonowski, J. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 251, 425[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
85Michorczyk, P., Gora-Marek, K., and Ogonowski, J. Catal. Lett. 2006, 109, 195[Crossref], Google Scholar
86Liu, Y., Li, Z. H., Lu, J., and Fan, K. N. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 20382[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
87Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., Pronin, A. A., Schlögl, R., and Jentoft, F. C. J. Phys. Chem. B 1996, 110, 7975[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
88Nakagawa, K., Kajita, C., Okumura, K., Ikenaga, N., Nishitani-Gamo, M., Ando, T., Kobayashi, T., and Suzuki, T. J. Catal. 2001, 203, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
89Xu, B. J., Zheng, B., Hua, W. M., Yue, Y. H., and Gao, Z. J. Catal. 2006, 239, 470[Crossref], Google Scholar
90Centi, G., Trifiro, F., Ebner, J. R., and Franchetti, V. M. Chem. Rev. 1988, 88, 55[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
91Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1998, 41, 21[Crossref], Google Scholar
92Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Today 1999, 49, 141[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
93Punniyamurthy, T., Velusamy, S., and Iqbal, J. Chem. Rev. 2005, 105, 2329[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
94Vedrine, J. C., Millet, J. M. M., and Volta, J.-C. Catal. Today 1996, 32, 115[Crossref], Google Scholar
95Busca, G., Centi, G., and Trifiro, F. Appl. Catal. 1986, 25, 265[Crossref], Google Scholar
96Busca, G., Cavani, F., Centi, G., and Trifiro, F. J. Catal. 1986, 99, 400[Crossref], Google Scholar
97Agaskar, P. A., Decaul, L., and Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Lett. 1994, 23, 339[Crossref], Google Scholar
98Kung, H. H. Adv. Catal. 1994, 40, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
99Millet, J. M. M., Loukah, M., Rouzies, D., Volta, J. C., and Vedrine, J. C. Colloq. Fr.—Maghrebin Catal. 1993, 2, 1[CAS], Google Scholar
100Millet, J.-M. M. Top. Catal. 2006, 38, 83[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
101Mamedov, E. A. and Corberan, V. C. Appl. Catal., A 1995, 127, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
102Grabowski, R. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2006, 48, 199[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
103Rulkens, R. and Tilley, T. D. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 9959[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
104Rulkens, R., Male, J. L., Terry, K. W., Olthof, B., Khodakov, A., Bell, A. T., Iglesia, E., and Tilley, T. D. Chem. Mater. 1999, 11, 2966[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
105Fujdala, K. L. and Tilley, T. D. J. Catal. 2003, 218, 123[Crossref], Google Scholar
106Vedrine, J. C., Coudurier, G., and Millet, J.-M. M. Catal. Today 1997, 33, 3[Crossref], Google Scholar
107C&E News1995, Vol 13 (May).
108Centi, G., Grasselli, R. K., and Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 661[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
109Grasselli, R. K. Top. Catal. 2001, 79Google Scholar
110Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Today 2000, 55, 311[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
111Centi, G., Perathoner, S., and Trifiro, F. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 143[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
112Holmberg, J., Hansen, S., Grasselli, R. K., and Andersson, A. Top. Catal. 2006, 38, 17[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
113Grasselli, R. K., Buttrey, D. J., Burrington, J. D., Andersson, A., Holmberg, J., Ueda, W., Kubo, J., Lugmair, C. G., and Volpe, A. F. Top. Catal. 2006, 38, 7[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
114Bettahar, M. M., Costentin, G., Savary, L., and Lavalley, J. C. Appl. Catal., A 1996, 145, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
115Lin, M. M. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 207, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
116Ito, T., Wang, J. X., Lin, C. H., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 5062[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
117Ito, T. and Lunsford, J. H. Nature 1985, 314, 721[Crossref], Google Scholar
118Lunsford, J. H. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 81, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
119Lunsford, J. H. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1995, 34, 970[Crossref], Google Scholar
120Sokolovskii, V. D. and Mamedov, E. A. Catal. Today 1992, 14, 331[Crossref], Google Scholar
121Driscoll, D. J., Martir, W., Wang, J. X., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 58[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
122Driscoll, D. J., Campbell, K. D., and Lunsford, J. H. Adv. Catal. 1987, 35, 139[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
123Campbell, K. D., Morales, E., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987, 109, 7900[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
124Labinger, J. A. Catal. Lett. 1988, 1, 371– 5[Crossref], Google Scholar
125Podkolzin, S. G., Stangland, E. E., Jones, M. E., Peringer, E., and Lercher, J. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 2569[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
126Van der Heijden, A., Podkolzin, S. G., Jones, M. E., Bitter, J. H., and Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 5002[Crossref], Google Scholar
127Weckhuysen, B. M., Wachs, I. E., and Schoonheydt, R. A. Chem. Rev. 1996, 96, 3327[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
128Deo, G., Wachs, I. E., and Haber, J. Crit. Rev. Surf. Sci. 1994, 4, 141[CAS], Google Scholar
129Banares, M. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 319[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
130Madeira, L. M. and Portela, M. F. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2002, 44, 247[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
131Cavani, F., Ballarini, N., and Cericola, A. Catal. Today 2007, 127, 113[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
132Blasco, T. and Nieto, J. M. L. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 117[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
133Wachs, I. E. and Weckhuysen, B. M. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 67[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
134Nowak, I. and Ziolek, M. Chem. Rev. 1999, 99, 3603[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
135Macht, J. and Iglesia, E. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2008, 10, 5331[Crossref], Google Scholar
136Weckhuysen, B. M., Bensalem, A., and Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1998, 94, 2011[Crossref], Google Scholar
137Weckhuysen, B. M., Verberckmoes, A. A., Debaere, J., Ooms, K., Langhans, I., and Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Mol. Catal. A 2000, 151, 115[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
138Lillehaug, S., Borve, K. J., Sierka, M., and Sauer, J. A. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2004, 17, 990[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
139Lillehaug, S., Jensen, V. R., and Borve, K. J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2006, 19, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
140Takahara, I. and Saito, M. Chem. Lett. 1996, 973[Crossref], Google Scholar
141Michorczyk, P. and Ogonowski, J. React. Kinet. Catat. Lett. 2005, 87, 177[Crossref], Google Scholar
142Stern, D. L. and Grasselli, R. K. J. Catal. 1997, 167, 550[Crossref], Google Scholar
143Xie, S. B., Chen, K. D., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 10059[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
144Chen, K. D., Iglesia, E., and Bell, A. T. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 646[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
145Khan, M. M. and Somorjai, G. A. J. Catal. 1985, 91, 263[Crossref], Google Scholar
146Zhen, K. J., Khan, M. M., Mak, C. H., Lewis, K. B., and Somorjai, G. A. J. Catal. 1985, 94, 501[Crossref], Google Scholar
147Spencer, N. D. and Pereira, C. J. J. Catal. 1989, 116, 399[Crossref], Google Scholar
148Liu, R. S., Iwamoto, M., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1982, 78[Crossref], Google Scholar
149Liu, H. F., Liu, R. S., Liew, K. Y., Johnson, R. E., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1984, 106, 4117[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
150Smith, M. R. and Ozkan, U. S. J. Catal. 1993, 142, 226[Crossref], Google Scholar
151de Lucas, A., Valverde, J. L., Canizares, P., and Rodriguez, L. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 184, 143[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
152Kobayashi, T., Nakagawa, K., Tabata, K., and Haruta, M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 1609[Crossref], Google Scholar
153Arena, F., Gatti, G., Martra, G., Coluccia, S., Stievano, L., Spadaro, L., Famulari, P., and Parmaliana, A. J. Catal. 2005, 231, 365[Crossref], Google Scholar
154Wang, Y., Yang, W., Yang, L., Wang, X., and Zhang, Q. Catal. Today 2006, 117, 156[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
155Parmaliana, A., Arena, F., Sokolovskii, V., Frusteri, F., and Giordano, N. Catal. Today 1996, 28, 363[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
156Chen, K. D., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 1292[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
157Fu, G., Xu, X., Lu, X., and Wan, H. L. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 6416[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
158Fu, G., Xu, X., Lu, X., and Wan, H. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 3989[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
159Fu, G., Xu, X., and Wan, H. L. Catal. Today 2006, 117, 133[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
160Fu, G., Chen, Z. N., Xu, X., and Wan, H. L. J. Phys. Chem. A 2008, 112, 717[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
161Khodakov, A., Olthof, B., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 1999, 181, 205[Crossref], Google Scholar
162Argyle, M. D., Chen, K. D., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 2002, 208, 139[Crossref], Google Scholar
163Steinfeldt, N., Muller, D., and Berndt, H. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 272, 201[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
164Blasco, T., Galli, A., Nieto, J. M. L., and Trifiro, F. J. Catal. 1997, 169, 203[Crossref], Google Scholar
165Mars, P. and van Krevelen, D. W. Chem. Eng. Sci. 1954, 3, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
166Rozanska, X., Fortrie, R., and Sauer, J. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 6041[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
167Redfern, P. C., Zapol, P., Sternberg, M., Adiga, S. P., Zygmunt, S. A., and Curtiss, L. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 8363[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
168Fu, H., Liu, Z.-P., Li, Z.-H., Wang, W.-N., and Fan, K.-N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 11114[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
169Ohler, N. and Bell, A. T. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 2700[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
170Xu, Y. D. and Lin, L. W. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 188, 53[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
171Lunsford, J. H. Catal. Today 2000, 63, 165[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
172Choudhary, T. V., Aksoylu, E., and Goodman, D. W. Catal. Rev. 2003, 45, 151[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
173Luzgin, M. V., Rogov, V. A., Arzumanov, S. S., Toktarev, A. V., Stepanov, A. G., and Parmon, V. N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 4559[Crossref], Google Scholar
174Choudhary, V. R., Kinage, A. K., and Choudhary, T. V. Science 1997, 275, 1286[Crossref], Google Scholar
175Wang, L. S., Tao, L. X., Xie, M. S., Xu, G. F., Huang, J. S., and Xu, Y. D. Catal. Lett. 1993, 21, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
176Shu, Y. Y. and Ichikawa, M. Catal. Today 2001, 71, 55[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
177http://www.iza-structure.org/databases/.
178Kazansky, V. B., Serykh, A. I., Anderson, B. G., and van Santen, R. A. Catal. Lett. 2003, 88, 211[Crossref], Google Scholar
179Kazansky, V. B. and Serykh, A. I. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2004, 6, 3760[Crossref], Google Scholar
180Rane, N., Overweg, A. R., Kazansky, V. B., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. J. Catal. 2006, 239, 478[Crossref], Google Scholar
181Pidko, E. A., Kazansky, V. B., Hensen, E. J. M., and van Santen, R. A. J. Catal. 2006, 240, 73[Crossref], Google Scholar
182Dooley, K. M., Chang, C. C., and Price, G. L. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 84, 17[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
183Hamid, S. B. A., Derouane, E. G., Meriaudeau, P., and Naccache, C. Catal. Today 1996, 31, 327[Crossref], Google Scholar
184Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. J. Catal. 2005, 233, 351[Crossref], Google Scholar
185Hensen, E. J. M., Pidko, E. A., Rane, N., and van Santen, R. A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 7273[Crossref], Google Scholar
186Pidko, E. A., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 2893[Crossref], Google Scholar
187Pidko, E. A. and van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 4246[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
188Pidko, E. A., Hensen, E. J. M., and van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 13068[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
189Mole, T., Anderson, J. R., and Creer, G. Appl. Catal. 1985, 17, 141[Crossref], Google Scholar
190Scurrell, M. S. Appl. Catal. 1988, 41, 89[Crossref], Google Scholar
191El-Malki, E. M., van Santen, R. A., and Sachtler, W. M. H. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 4611[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
192Barbosa, L., Zhidomirov, G. M., and van Santen, R. A. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 3909[Crossref], Google Scholar
193Frash, M. V. and van Santen, R. A. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 1085[Crossref], Google Scholar
194Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. J. Catal. 2004, 227, 263[Crossref], Google Scholar
195Kazansky, V. B., Serykh, A. I., and Pidko, E. A. J. Catal. 2004, 225, 369[Crossref], Google Scholar
196Kazansky, V. B. and Pidko, E. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2103[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
197Pidko, E. A. and van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 2643[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
198Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., Rane, N., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 3088[Crossref], Google Scholar
199Kolyagin, Y. G., Ordomsky, V. V., Khimyak, Y. Z., Rebrov, A. I., Fajula, F., and Ivanova, I. I. J. Catal. 2006, 238, 122[Crossref], Google Scholar
200Stepanov, A. G., Arzumanov, S. S., Parmon, V. N., Kolyagin, Y. G., Ivanova, I. I., and Freude, D. Catal. Lett. 2007, 114, 85[Crossref], Google Scholar
201Stepanov, A. G., Arzumanov, S. S., Gabrienko, A. A., Toktarev, A. V., Parmon, V. N., and Freude, D. J. Catal. 2008, 253, 11[Crossref], Google Scholar
202Stepanov, A. G., Arzumanov, S. S., Gabrienko, A. A., Parmon, V. N., Ivanova, I. I., and Freude, D. ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 2559[Crossref], Google Scholar
203Pierella, L. B., Wang, L. S., and Anunziata, O. A. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1997, 60, 101[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
204Wang, D. J., Lunsford, J. H., and Rosynek, M. P. J. Catal. 1997, 169, 347[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
205Schuurman, Y. and Mirodatos, C. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 151, 305[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
206Soulivong, D., Norsic, S., Taoufik, M., Coperet, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Chakka, S., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 5044[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
207Kazansky, V. B. and Pidko, E. A. Catal. Today 2005, 110, 281[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
208Pidko, E. and Kazansky, V. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 1939[Crossref], Google Scholar
209de Lucas, A., Valverde, J. L., Canizares, P., and Rodriguez, L. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 172, 165[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
210de Lucas, A., Valverde, J. L., Rodriguez, L., Sanchez, P., and Garcia, M. T. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 203, 81[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
211Antinolo, A., Canizares, P., Carrillo-Hermosilla, F., Fernandez-Baeza, J., Funez, F. J., de Lucas, A., Otero, A., Rodriguez, L., and Valverde, J. L. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 193, 139[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
212Michalkiewicz, B. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 277, 147[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
213Panov, G. I., Kharitonov, A. S., and Sobolev, V. I. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 98, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
214Panov, G. I., Uriarte, A. K., Rodkin, M. A., and Sobolev, V. I. Catal. Today 1998, 41, 365[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
215Parmon, V. N., Panov, G. I., Uriarte, A., and Noskov, A. S. Catal. Today 2005, 100, 115[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
216Dubkov, K. A., Sobolev, V. I., and Panov, G. I. Kinet. Catal. 1998, 39, 72[CAS], Google Scholar
217Copéret, C., Chabanas, M., Petroff Saint-Arroman, R., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2003, 42, 156[Crossref], Google Scholar
218Zakharov, V. A., Dudchenko, V. K., Paukstis, E., Karakchiev, L. G., and Ermakov, Y. I. J. Mol. Catal. 1977, 2, 421[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
219Yermakov, Y. I., Ryndin, Y. A., Alekseev, O. S., Kochubei, D. I., Shmachkov, V. A., and Gergert, N. I. J. Mol. Catal. 1989, 49, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
220Schwartz, J. and Ward, M. D. J. Mol. Catal. 1980, 8, 465[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
221King, S. A. and Schwartz, J. Inorg. Chem. 1991, 30, 3771[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
222Corker, J., Lefebvre, F., Lecuyer, C., Dufaud, V., Quignard, F., Choplin, A., Evans, J., and Basset, J.-M. Science 1996, 271, 966[Crossref], Google Scholar
223Quignard, F., Choplin, A., and Basset, J. M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1991, 1589[Crossref], Google Scholar
224Watson, P. L. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1983, 276[Crossref], Google Scholar
225Niccolai, G. P. and Basset, J.-M. Appl. Catal., A 1996, 146, 145[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
226Steigerwald, M. L. and Goddard, W. A., III J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1984, 106, 308[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
227Maron, L., Perrin, L., and Eisenstein, O. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 2002, 534[Crossref], Google Scholar
228Copéret, C., Grouiller, A., Basset, M., and Chermette, H. ChemPhysChem 2003, 4, 608[Crossref], Google Scholar
229Besedin, D. V., Ustynyuk, L. Y., Ustynyuk, Y. A., and Lunin, V. V. Mendeleev Commun. 2002, 173[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
230Besedin, D. V., Ustynyuk, L. Y., Ustynyuk, Y. A., and Lunin, V. V. Top. Catal. 2005, 32, 47[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
231Rataboul, F., Baudouin, A., Thieuleux, C., Veyre, L., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., and Emsley, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 12541[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
232Thieuleux, C., Copéret, C., Dufaud, V., Marangelli, C., Kuntz, E., and Basset, J. M. J. Mol. Catal. A 2004, 213, 47[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
233Casty, G. L., Matturro, M. G., Myers, G. R., Reynolds, R. P., and Hall, R. B. Organometallics 2001, 20, 2246[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
234Soignier, S., Taoufik, M., Le Roux, E., Saggio, G., Dablemont, C., Baudouin, A., Lefebvre, F., De Mallmann, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Sunley, G., and Maunders, B. M. Organometallics 2006, 25, 1569[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
235Vidal, V., Theolier, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 991[Crossref], Google Scholar
236Vidal, V., Theolier, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., and Corker, J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 4595[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
237Lefort, L., Copéret, C., Taoufik, M., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Chem. Commun. 2000, 663[Crossref], Google Scholar
238Rataboul, F., Chabanas, M., De Mallmann, A., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Eur. J. Chem. 2003, 9, 1426[Crossref], [PubMed], Google Scholar
239Baudry, D., Ephritikhine, M., and Felkin, H. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1982, 606[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
240Baudry, D., Ephritikhine, M., Felkin, H., and Holmes-Smith, R. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1983, 788[Crossref], Google Scholar
241Mikhailov, M. N., Bagatur yants, A. A., and Kustov, L. M. Russ. Chem. Bull. 2003, 52, 30[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
242Eisen, M. S. and Marks, T. J. J. Mol. Catal. 1994, 86, 23[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
243Watson, P. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1983, 105, 6491[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
244Thompson, M. E., Baxter, S. M., Bulls, A. R., Burger, B. J., Nolan, M. C., Santarsiero, B. D., Schaefer, W. P., and Bercaw, J. E. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987, 109, 203[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
245Meyer, T. Y., Woerpel, K. A., Novak, B. M., and Bergman, R. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 10290[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
246Copéret, C., Rendón, N., and Blanc, F. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2009, 253Google Scholar
247van der Heijden, H. and Hessen, B. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 145[Crossref], Google Scholar
248Basuli, F., Bailey, B. C., Huffman, J. C., and Mindiola, D. J. Organometallics 2005, 24, 3321[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
249Basuli, F., Bailey, B. C., Watson, L. A., Tomaszewski, J., Huffman, J. C., and Mindiola, D. J. Organometallics 2006, 25, 6170[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
250Mindiola, D. J. Acc. Chem. Res. 2006, 39, 813[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
251Copéret, C., Maury, O., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2001, 40, 2331[Crossref], Google Scholar
252Le Roux, E., Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., de Mallmann, A., Copéret, C., Quadrelli, E. A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lukens, W., Lesage, A., Emsley, L., and Sunley, G. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 13391[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
253Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 6201[Crossref], Google Scholar
254Blanc, F., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J. M., and Coperet, C. Chem.—Eur. J. 2008, 14, 9030[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
255Copéret, C.Unpublished results.Google Scholar
256Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 2062[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
257Chabanas, M., Copéret, C., and Basset, J.-M. Chem.—Eur. J. 2003, 9, 971[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
258Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., Emsley, L., Sinha, A., and Schrock, R. R. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 1216[Crossref], Google Scholar
259Rhers, B., Salameh, A., Baudouin, A., Quadrelli, E. A., Taoufik, M., Copéret, C., Lefebvre, F., Basset, J.-M., Solans-Monfort, X., Eisenstein, O., Lukens, W. W., Lopez, L. P. H., Sinha, A., and Schrock, R. R. Organometallics 2006, 25, 3554[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
260Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Copéret, C., de Mallmann, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B. M., and Sunley, G. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 6755[Crossref], Google Scholar
261Taoufik, M., Le Roux, E., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Copéret, C., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B., and Sunley, G. J. Top. Catal. 2006, 40, 65[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
262Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B. M., and Sunley, G. J. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2007, 349, 231[Crossref], Google Scholar
263Bailey, B. C., Tout, A. R., Fan, H., Tomaszewski, J., Huffman, J. C., and Mindiola, D. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 8246[Crossref], Google Scholar
264Bailey, B. C., Fan, H. J., Huffman, J. C., Baik, M. H., and Mindiola, D. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 8781[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
265Fout, A. R., Scott, J., Miller, D. L., Bailey, B. C., Pink, M., and Mindiola, D. J. Organometallics 2009, 28, 331[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
266Schrock, R. R. Acc. Chem. Res. 1979, 12, 98[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
267Dufaud, V., Niccolai, G. P., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1995, 117, 4288[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
268Chabanas, M., Quadrelli, E. A., Fenet, B., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., and Emsley, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2001, 40, 4493[Crossref], Google Scholar
269Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Basset, J.-M., Lukens, W., Lesage, A., Hediger, S., and Emsley, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 492[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
270Blanc, F., Salameh, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Sinha, A., and Schrock, R. R. C. R. Chim. 2008, 11, 137[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
271Herrmann, W. A., Stumpt, A. W., Priermeier, T., Bogdanovic, S., Dufaud, V., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1997, 35, 2803[Crossref], Google Scholar
272Blanc, F., Chabanas, M., Copéret, C., Fenet, B., and Herdweck, E. J. Organomet. Chem. 2005, 690, 5014[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
273Ajjou, J. A. N., Rice, G. L., and Scott, S. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 13436[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
274Ajjou, J. A. N., Scott, S. L., and Paquet, V. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 415[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
275Beaudoin, M. C., Womiloju, O., Fu, A. Q., Ajjou, J. A. N., Rice, G. L., and Scott, S. L. J. Mol. Catal. A 2002, 190, 159[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
276Berthoud, R., Rendon, N., Blanc, F., Solans-Monfort, X., Coperet, C., and Eisenstein, O. Dalton Trans. 2009, 5879[Crossref], Google Scholar
277Petroff Saint-Arroman, R., Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., and Emsley, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 3820[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
278Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Chabanas, M., Alcor, D., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., Hediger, S., and Emsley, L. Organometallics 2005, 24, 4274[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
279Finch, W. C., Gillespie, R. D., Hedden, D., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1990, 112, 6221[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
280Gillespie, R. D., Burwell, R. L., Jr., and Marks, T. J. Langmuir 1990, 6, 1465[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
281Leduc, A.-M., Salameh, A., Soulivong, D., Chabanas, M., Basset, J.-M., Coperet, C., Solans-Monfort, X., Clot, E., Eisenstein, O., Boehm, V. P. W., and Roeper, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 6288[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
282Toscano, P. J. and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 653[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
283Eisen, M. S. and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1992, 114, 10358[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
284Jeske, G., Lauke, H., Mauermann, H., Schumann, H., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 8111[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
285Jeske, G., Lauke, H., Mauermann, H., Swepston, P. N., Schumann, H., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 8091[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
286Jeske, G., Schock, L. E., Swepston, P. N., Schumann, H., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 8103[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
287Lécuyer, C., Quignard, F., Choplin, A., Olivier, D., and Basset, J. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1991, 30, 1660[Crossref], Google Scholar
288Dufaud, V. and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1998, 37, 806[Crossref], Google Scholar
289Mortensen, J. J. and Parrinello, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 2901[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
290Niccolai, G. P. and Basset, J.-M. NATO ASI Ser. 1998, 44, 111[CAS], Google Scholar
291Joubert, J., Delbecq, F., Thieuleux, C., Taoufik, M., Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., and Sautet, P. Organometallics 2007, 26, 3329[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
292Rosier, C., Niccolai, G. P., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 12408[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
293d’ Ornelas, L., Reyes, S., Quignard, F., Choplin, A., and Basset, J. M. Chem. Lett. 1993, 193, 1Google Scholar
294Chabanas, M., Vidal, V., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2000, 39, 1962[Crossref], Google Scholar
295Sharp, P. R. and Schrock, R. R. J. Organomet. Chem. 1979, 171, 43[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
296Mikhailov, M. N. and Kustov, L. M. Russ. Chem. Bull. 2005, 54, 300[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
297Vidal, V., Theolier, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Science 1997, 276, 99[Crossref], Google Scholar
298Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Soulivong, D., Taoufik, M., and Thivolle-Cazat, J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 6082[Crossref], Google Scholar
299Basset, J., Copéret, C., Lefort, L., Maunders, B., Maury, O., Le Roux, E., Saggio, G., Soignier, S., Soulivong, D., Sunley, G., Taoufik, M., and Thivolle-Cazat, J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 8604[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
300Herisson, J. L. and Chauvin, Y. Makromol. Chem. 1971, 141, 161[Crossref], Google Scholar
301Solans-Monfort, X., Clot, E., Copéret, C., and Eisenstein, O. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 14015[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
302Poater, A., Solans-Monfort, X., Clot, E., Copéret, C., and Eisenstein, O. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 8207[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
303Schinzel, S., Chermette, H., Coperet, C., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 7984[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
304Parkin, G., Bunel, E., Burger, B. J., Trimmer, M. S., Van Asselt, A., and Bercaw, J. E. J. Mol. Catal. 1987, 41, 21[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
305Heckelsberg, L. F. and Banks, R. L.(Phillips Petroleum Co.). US3445541, 1969.Google Scholar
306Hughes, T. R., Burnett, R. L., and Wall, R. G. Catal., Proc. Int. Congr., 5th 1973, 2, 1217[CAS], Google Scholar
307Burnett, R. L. and Hughes, T. R. J. Catal. 1973, 31, 55[Crossref], Google Scholar
308Goldman, A. S., Roy, A. H., Huang, Z., Ahuja, R., Schinski, W., and Brookhart, M. Science 2006, 312, 257[Crossref], Google Scholar
309Bailey, B. C., Schrock, R. R., Kundu, S., Goldman, A. S., Huang, Z., and Brookhart, M. Organometallics 2009, 28, 355[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
310Rataboul, F., Copéret, C., Lefort, L., de Mallmann, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Dalton Trans. 2007, 923[Crossref], Google Scholar
311Blanc, F., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Hock, A. S., Tonzetich, Z. J., and Schrock, R. R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 1044[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
312Blanc, F., Berthoud, R., Salameh, A., Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Singh, R., and Schrock, R. R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 8434[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
313Weiss, K. and Loessel, G. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1989, 28, 62[Crossref], Google Scholar
314Buffon, R., Leconte, M., Choplin, A., and Basset, J.-M. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 1994, 1723[Crossref], Google Scholar
315Merle, N., Stoffelbach, F., Taoufik, M., Le Roux, E., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J. M. Chem. Commun. 2009, 2523[Crossref], Google Scholar
316Taoufik, M., Schwab, E., Schultz, M., Vanoppen, D., Walter, M., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Chem. Commun. 2004, 1434[Crossref], Google Scholar
317Thieuleux, C., Maraval, A., Veyre, L., Copéret, C., Soulivong, D., Basset, J.-M., and Sunley, G. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 2288[Crossref], Google Scholar
318Soulivong, D., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B. M., Pardy, R. B. A., and Sunley, G. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2004, 43, 5366[Crossref], Google Scholar
319Basset, J. M., Thivolle, C. J., and Taoufik, M.(CNRS) FR2841241 , 2003.Google Scholar
320Copéret, C. Pure Appl. Chem. 2009, 81, 585[Crossref], Google Scholar
321Clerici, M. G. Appl. Catal. 1991, 68, 249[Crossref], Google Scholar
322Bare, S. R., Kelly, S. D., Sinkler, W., Low, J. J., Modica, F. S., Valencia, S., Corma, A., and Nemeth, L. T. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 12924[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
323Boronat, M., Corma, A., and Renz, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 21168[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
324Boronat, M., Concepcion, P., Corma, A., Navarro, M. T., Renz, M., and Valencia, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 2876[Crossref], Google Scholar
325Zecchina, A., Spoto, G., and Bordiga, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 1627[Crossref], Google Scholar
326Lamberti, C., Groppo, E., Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., and Zecchina, A. Adv. Catal. 2007, 51, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
327Banares, M. A. Catal. Today 2005, 100, 71[Crossref], Google Scholar
328Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910[Crossref], Google Scholar
329Sklenak, S., Dedecek, J., Li, C., Wichterlova, B., Gabova, V., Sierka, M., and Sauer, J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 1237[Crossref], Google Scholar
330Evans, J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 3045[Crossref], Google Scholar
331Alexeev, O. and Gates, B. C. Top. Catal. 2000, 10, 273[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
332Zou, X. and Hovmoller, S. Acta Crystallogr., A. 2008, 64, 149[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
333Friedrich, H., de Jongh, P. E., Verkleij, A. J., and de Jong, K. P. Chem. Rev. 2009, 109, 1613[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
334Corma, A. Chem. Rev. 1997, 97, 2373[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
335Schuth, F. and Schmidt, W. Adv. Mater. 2002, 14, 629[Crossref], Google Scholar
336Taguchi, A. and Schuth, F. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2005, 77, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
337Lu, A. H. and Schuth, F. Adv. Mater. 2006, 18, 1793[Crossref], Google Scholar
338Fujdala, K. L. and Tilley, T. D. J. Catal. 2003, 216, 265[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
339Mizuno, N. and Misono, M. Chem. Rev. 1998, 98, 199[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
340Vedrine, J. C. and Millet, J.-M. M. Met. Oxide Catal. 2009, 2, 561[CAS], Google Scholar
341Pamies, O. and Backvall, J. E. Chem. Rev. 2003, 103, 3247[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
342Corma, A. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2004, 46, 369[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
343Piera, J. and Backvall, J. E. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 3506[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
6
Mentioning
257
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 389 publications.
Yu-Feng Ding, Ling-Yu Pan, Qiang Wan, Shuang-Feng Yin, Meng-Qiu Cai. Recognition of Water-Induced Double-Edged Sword Effects in Photocatalytic Selective Oxidation of Toluene on Titanium Dioxide Clusters with Density Functional Theory Calculations. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2023, 88 (10) , 6304-6312. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c01276
Dragan B. Ninković, Salvador Moncho, Predrag Petrović, Michael B. Hall, Snežana D. Zarić, Edward N. Brothers. Improving a Methane C–H Activation Complex by Metal and Ligand Alterations from Computational Results. Inorganic Chemistry 2023, 62 (13) , 5058-5066. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.2c03342
Chenlu Xie, Eddie Sun, Gang Wan, Jian Zheng, Raghubir Gupta, Arun Majumdar. Transport Mediating Core–Shell Photocatalyst Architecture for Selective Alkane Oxidation. Nano Letters 2023, 23 (5) , 2039-2045. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c04567
Hongda Zhu, Timothy A. Jackson, Bala Subramaniam. Facile Ozonation of Light Alkanes to Oxygenates with High Atom Economy in Tunable Condensed Phase at Ambient Temperature. JACS Au 2023, 3 (2) , 498-507. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00631
Michael A. Denchy, Linjie Wang, Benjamin R. Bilik, Lucas Hansen, Sandra Albornoz, Francisco Lizano, Nicolas Blando, Zachary Hicks, Gerd Gantefoer, Kit H. Bowen. Ultrasmall Cluster Model for Investigating Single Atom Catalysis: Dehydrogenation of 1-Propanamine by Size-Selected Pt1Zr2O7 Clusters Supported on HOPG. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2022, 126 (42) , 7578-7590. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.2c03149
Hongyu Chen, Pan Gao, Zhengmao Liu, Lixin Liang, Qiao Han, Zhili Wang, Kuizhi Chen, Zhenchao Zhao, Meiling Guo, Xuebin Liu, Xiuwen Han, Xinhe Bao, Guangjin Hou. Direct Detection of Reactive Gallium-Hydride Species on the Ga2O3 Surface via Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (38) , 17365-17375. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01005
Jiajia Shi, Yao Wei, Dan Zhou, Leilei Zhang, Xiaofeng Yang, Zhili Miao, Haifeng Qi, Shengxin Zhang, Anqi Li, Xiaoyan Liu, Wensheng Yan, Zheng Jiang, Aiqin Wang, Tao Zhang. Introducing Co–O Moiety to Co–N–C Single-Atom Catalyst for Ethylbenzene Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (13) , 7760-7772. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01873
Dongmiao Li, Jinni Shen, Jiangjie Zhang, Yao Chai, Yanyu Xie, Chengwei Qiu, Mengmeng Ni, Yuanhui Zheng, Xuxu Wang, Zizhong Zhang. Photocatalytic Chlorination of Methane Using Alkali Chloride Solution. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7004-7013. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01228
Jinqiu Guo, Mi Peng, Zhimin Jia, Chengyu Li, Hongyang Liu, Hongbo Zhang, Ding Ma. Kinetic Evidence of Most Abundant Surface Intermediates Variation over Ptn and Ptp: Few-Atom Pt Ensembles Enable Efficient Catalytic Cyclohexane Dehydrogenation for Hydrogen Production-II. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7248-7261. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01420
Francisco Zaera. Designing Sites in Heterogeneous Catalysis: Are We Reaching Selectivities Competitive With Those of Homogeneous Catalysts?. Chemical Reviews 2022, 122 (9) , 8594-8757. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00905
Mona Abdelgaid, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Lewis Acid–Base Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4268-4289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00229
Yanfei Zhang, Liang Qi, Branden Leonhardt, Alexis T. Bell. Mechanism and Kinetics of n-Butane Dehydrogenation to 1,3-Butadiene Catalyzed by Isolated Pt Sites Grafted onto ≡SiOZn–OH Nests in Dealuminated Zeolite Beta. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (6) , 3333-3345. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00059
Jennifer N. Jocz, Yimeng Lyu, Bryan J. Hare, Carsten Sievers. Characterization of Surface Species during Benzene Hydroxylation over a NiO-Ceria-Zirconia Catalyst. Langmuir 2022, 38 (1) , 458-471. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.1c02833
Khai Chen Tan, Teng He, Yong Shen Chua, Ping Chen. Recent Advances of Catalysis in the Hydrogenation and Dehydrogenation of N-Heterocycles for Hydrogen Storage. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (34) , 18553-18566. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c04783
Teng Li, Tuiana Shoinkhorova, Jorge Gascon, Javier Ruiz-Martínez. Aromatics Production via Methanol-Mediated Transformation Routes. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (13) , 7780-7819. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c01422
Manouchehr Nadjafi, Agnieszka M. Kierzkowska, Andac Armutlulu, Rene Verel, Alexey Fedorov, Paula M. Abdala, Christoph R. Müller. Correlating the Structural Evolution of ZnO/Al2O3 to Spinel Zinc Aluminate with its Catalytic Performance in Propane Dehydrogenation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (25) , 14065-14074. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c03175
C. S. Praveen, A. P. Borosy, C. Copéret, A. Comas-Vives. Strain in Silica-Supported Ga(III) Sites: Neither Too Much nor Too Little for Propane Dehydrogenation Catalytic Activity. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (10) , 6865-6874. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c03135
Scott R. Docherty, Christophe Copéret. Deciphering Metal–Oxide and Metal–Metal Interplay via Surface Organometallic Chemistry: A Case Study with CO2 Hydrogenation to Methanol. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (18) , 6767-6780. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c02555
Hongda Zhu, Timothy A. Jackson, Bala Subramaniam. Highly Selective Isobutane Hydroxylation by Ozone in a Pressure-Tuned Biphasic Gas–Liquid Process. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2021, 9 (16) , 5506-5512. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c01004
Rachel Martin, Minkyu Kim, Aravind Asthagiri, Jason F. Weaver. Alkane Activation and Oxidation on Late-Transition-Metal Oxides: Challenges and Opportunities. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (8) , 4682-4703. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c00612
Dmitry N. Kholodkov, Ashot V. Arzumanyan, Roman A. Novikov, Alexey S. Kashin, Alexander V. Polezhaev, Viktor G. Vasil’ev, Aziz M. Muzafarov. Silica-Based Aerogels with Tunable Properties: The Highly Efficient BF3-Catalyzed Preparation and Look inside Their Structure. Macromolecules 2021, 54 (4) , 1961-1975. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02598
Yiwen Zhang, Min Zhang, Zhengbo Han, Shijun Huang, Daqiang Yuan, Weiping Su. Atmosphere-Pressure Methane Oxidation to Methyl Trifluoroacetate Enabled by a Porous Organic Polymer-Supported Single-Site Palladium Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (3) , 1008-1013. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05205
Victor Fung, Guoxiang Hu, Zili Wu, De-en Jiang. Hydrogen in Nanocatalysis. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2020, 11 (17) , 7049-7057. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c01783
Xianhua Zhang, Chunlei Pei, Xin Chang, Sai Chen, Rui Liu, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Rentao Mu, Jinlong Gong. FeO6 Octahedral Distortion Activates Lattice Oxygen in Perovskite Ferrite for Methane Partial Oxidation Coupled with CO2 Splitting. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (26) , 11540-11549. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c04643
Ganhua Qiu, Ting Wang, Xiaoli Li, Xueqin Tao, Benxia Li. Novel BiOCl/BiCl3Br–CTA Heterostructure Photocatalyst with Abundant Oxygen Vacancies and a Superoleophilic Surface for Promoting Selective Oxidation of Toluene. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (25) , 11517-11526. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01796
Alessandro Longo, Stavros Alexandros Theofanidis, Chiara Cavallari, Nadadur Veeraraghavan Srinath, Jiawei Hu, Hilde Poelman, Maarten K. Sabbe, Christoph J. Sahle, Guy B. Marin, Vladimir V. Galvita. What Makes Fe-Modified MgAl2O4 an Active Catalyst Support? Insight from X-ray Raman Scattering. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (12) , 6613-6622. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00759
Mineyuki Shimizu, Kumiko Michikawa, Yoshifumi Maegawa, Shinji Inagaki, Ken-ichi Fujita. Iridium Complex Immobilized on Custom-Designed Periodic Mesoporous Organosilica as Reusable Catalyst for the Dehydrogenative Oxidation of Alcohols. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (3) , 2527-2535. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b02607
Manouchehr Nadjafi, Paula M. Abdala, Rene Verel, Davood Hosseini, Olga V. Safonova, Alexey Fedorov, Christoph R. Müller. Reducibility and Dispersion Influence the Activity in Silica-Supported Vanadium-Based Catalysts for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane: The Case of Sodium Decavanadate. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (3) , 2314-2321. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b04752
Manoja K. Samantaray, Valerio D’Elia, Eva Pump, Laura Falivene, Moussab Harb, Samy Ould Chikh, Luigi Cavallo, Jean-Marie Basset. The Comparison between Single Atom Catalysis and Surface Organometallic Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 734-813. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00238
Carly Byron, Shi Bai, Gokhan Celik, Magali S. Ferrandon, Cong Liu, Chaoying Ni, Ali Mehdad, Massimiliano Delferro, Raul F. Lobo, Andrew V. Teplyakov. Role of Boron in Enhancing the Catalytic Performance of Supported Platinum Catalysts for the Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of n-Butane. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (2) , 1500-1510. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b04689
Afshan Mohajeri . From Subnanometric Clusters toward Single-Atom Catalysts. 2020, 17-36. https://doi.org/10.1021/bk-2020-1360.ch002
Anton A. Gabrienko, Sergei S. Arzumanov, Alexander V. Toktarev, Dieter Freude, Jürgen Haase, Alexander G. Stepanov. Propylene Transformation on Zn-Modified Zeolite: Is There Any Difference in the Effect of Zn2+ Cations or ZnO Species on the Reaction Occurrence?. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (45) , 27573-27583. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b07672
Ka Wing Chan, Deni Mance, Olga V. Safonova, Christophe Copéret. Well-Defined Silica-Supported Tungsten(IV)–Oxo Complex: Olefin Metathesis Activity, Initiation, and Role of Brønsted Acid Sites. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (45) , 18286-18292. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09493
Jian-Feng Wu, Xu-Dong Gao, Long-Min Wu, Wei David Wang, Si-Min Yu, Shi Bai. Mechanistic Insights on the Direct Conversion of Methane into Methanol over Cu/Na–ZSM-5 Zeolite: Evidence from EPR and Solid-State NMR. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (9) , 8677-8681. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02898
Vasily V. Kaichev, Yuriy A. Chesalov, Andrey A. Saraev, Anna M. Tsapina. A Mechanistic Study of Dehydrogenation of Propane over Vanadia–Titania Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (32) , 19668-19680. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04991
Christophe Copéret. Single-Sites and Nanoparticles at Tailored Interfaces Prepared via Surface Organometallic Chemistry from Thermolytic Molecular Precursors. Accounts of Chemical Research 2019, 52 (6) , 1697-1708. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.9b00138
Nao Tsunoji, Hidechika Nishida, Yusuke Ide, Kenji Komaguchi, Shinjiro Hayakawa, Yuya Yagenji, Masahiro Sadakane, Tsuneji Sano. Photocatalytic Activation of C–H Bonds by Spatially Controlled Chlorine and Titanium on the Silicate Layer. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (6) , 5742-5751. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b01284
Yupeng Du, Abdallah S. Berrouk, Lejing Sun, Weizhen Sun, Deren Fang, Wanzhong Ren. Experimental and Computational Fluid Dynamics Investigations of Light Alkane Dehydrogenation in a Fluidized Bed Reactor. Energy & Fuels 2019, 33 (5) , 4177-4189. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.9b00474
Zoha H. Syed, David M. Kaphan, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Magali S. Ferrandon, Evan C. Wegener, Gokhan Celik, Jianguo Wen, Cong Liu, Fulya Dogan, Karen I. Goldberg, Massimiliano Delferro. Electrophilic Organoiridium(III) Pincer Complexes on Sulfated Zirconia for Hydrocarbon Activation and Functionalization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (15) , 6325-6337. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b00896
Mitchell C. Cholewinski, Mudit Dixit, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Computational Study of Methane Activation on γ-Al2O3. ACS Omega 2018, 3 (12) , 18242-18250. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.8b02554
Pavlo Kostetskyy, Carly M. Nolan, Mudit Dixit, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Understanding Alkane Dehydrogenation through Alcohol Dehydration on γ-Al2O3. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2018, 57 (49) , 16657-16663. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.8b04392
Mudit Dixit, Pavlo Kostetskyy, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Alkane Dehydrogenation on γ-Al2O3: Site-Dependent Reactions. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (12) , 11570-11578. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b03484
Lu-Na Song, Feng Ding, Ya-Kun Yang, Du Ding, Lang Chen, Chak-Tong Au, Shuang-Feng Yin. Synthesis of TiO2/Bi2MoO6 Composite for Partial Oxidation of Aromatic Alkanes under Visible-Light Illumination. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2018, 6 (12) , 17044-17050. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b04403
Jeffrey Camacho-Bunquin, Magali S. Ferrandon, Hyuntae Sohn, A. Jeremy Kropf, Ce Yang, Jianguo Wen, Ryan A. Hackler, Cong Liu, Gokhan Celik, Christopher L. Marshall, Peter C. Stair, Massimiliano Delferro. Atomically Precise Strategy to a PtZn Alloy Nanocluster Catalyst for the Deep Dehydrogenation of n-Butane to 1,3-Butadiene. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (11) , 10058-10063. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02794
Yiqing Zhao, Hyuntae Sohn, Bo Hu, Jens Niklas, Oleg G. Poluektov, Jun Tian, Massimiliano Delferro, Adam S. Hock. Zirconium Modification Promotes Catalytic Activity of a Single-Site Cobalt Heterogeneous Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Omega 2018, 3 (9) , 11117-11127. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.8b00862
Keith Searles, Ka Wing Chan, Jorge Augusto Mendes Burak, Dmitry Zemlyanov, Olga Safonova, Christophe Copéret. Highly Productive Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst Using Silica-Supported Ga–Pt Nanoparticles Generated from Single-Sites. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (37) , 11674-11679. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b05378
Ágnes Szécsényi, Guanna Li, Jorge Gascon, Evgeny A. Pidko. Mechanistic Complexity of Methane Oxidation with H2O2 by Single-Site Fe/ZSM-5 Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (9) , 7961-7972. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b01672
Caiyun Geng, Jilai Li, Thomas Weiske, Helmut Schwarz. Thermal O–H Bond Activation of Water As Mediated by Heteronuclear [Al2Mg2O5]•+: Evidence for Oxygen-Atom Scrambling. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (29) , 9275-9281. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b05618
Jonathan William Estes, Mudit Dixit, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Understanding the Gas Phase Chemistry of Alkanes with First-Principles Calculations. Journal of Chemical & Engineering Data 2018, 63 (7) , 2430-2437. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jced.7b00992
Yuta Tsuji, Kazunari Yoshizawa. Adsorption and Activation of Methane on the (110) Surface of Rutile-type Metal Dioxides. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (27) , 15359-15381. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b03184
Estefanía Díaz, Albeiro Restrepo, Francisco Núñez-Zarur. Reactivity of a Silica-Supported Mo Alkylidene Catalyst toward Alkanes: A DFT Study on the Metathesis of Propane. Organometallics 2018, 37 (13) , 2023-2036. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.8b00090
Matthew C. Simons, Manuel A. Ortuño, Varinia Bernales, Carlo Alberto Gaggioli, Christopher J. Cramer, Aditya Bhan, Laura Gagliardi. C–H Bond Activation on Bimetallic Two-Atom Co-M Oxide Clusters Deposited on Zr-Based MOF Nodes: Effects of Doping at the Molecular Level. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (4) , 2864-2869. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00012
Jeffrey Camacho-Bunquin, Magali Ferrandon, Hyuntae Sohn, Dali Yang, Cong Liu, Patricia Anne Ignacio-de Leon, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Peter C. Stair, Massimiliano Delferro. Chemoselective Hydrogenation with Supported Organoplatinum(IV) Catalyst on Zn(II)-Modified Silica. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (11) , 3940-3951. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b11981
Helmut Schwarz, Sason Shaik, and Jilai Li . Electronic Effects on Room-Temperature, Gas-Phase C–H Bond Activations by Cluster Oxides and Metal Carbides: The Methane Challenge. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (48) , 17201-17212. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10139
Andrew G. Bean Getsoian, Bo Hu, Jeffrey T. Miller, and Adam S. Hock . Silica-Supported, Single-Site Sc and Y Alkyls for Catalytic Hydrogenation of Propylene. Organometallics 2017, 36 (19) , 3677-3685. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00623
Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Xavier Solans-Monfort, and Albeiro Restrepo . Mechanistic Insights into Alkane Metathesis Catalyzed by Silica-Supported Tantalum Hydrides: A DFT Study. Inorganic Chemistry 2017, 56 (17) , 10458-10473. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b01464
Dragan B. Ninković, Salvador Moncho, Predrag V. Petrović, Snežana D. Zarić, Michael B. Hall, and Edward N. Brothers . Methane Activations by Titanium Neopentylidene Complexes: Electronic Resilience and Steric Control. Inorganic Chemistry 2017, 56 (15) , 9264-9272. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b01340
Deven P. Estes, Amanda K. Cook, Erwin Lam, Louise Wong, and Christophe Copéret . Understanding the Lewis Acidity of Co(II) Sites on a Silica Surface. Inorganic Chemistry 2017, 56 (14) , 7731-7736. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b00443
Murielle F. Delley, Giuseppe Lapadula, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives, Vidmantas Kalendra, Gunnar Jeschke, Dirk Baabe, Marc D. Walter, Aaron J. Rossini, Anne Lesage, Lyndon Emsley, Olivier Maury, and Christophe Copéret . Local Structures and Heterogeneity of Silica-Supported M(III) Sites Evidenced by EPR, IR, NMR, and Luminescence Spectroscopies. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (26) , 8855-8867. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b02179
Caiyun Geng, Jilai Li, Thomas Weiske, Maria Schlangen, Sason Shaik, and Helmut Schwarz . Electrostatic and Charge-Induced Methane Activation by a Concerted Double C–H Bond Insertion. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (4) , 1684-1689. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b12514
Helmut Schwarz, Patricio González-Navarrete, Jilai Li, Maria Schlangen, Xiaoyan Sun, Thomas Weiske, and Shaodong Zhou . Unexpected Mechanistic Variants in the Thermal Gas-Phase Activation of Methane. Organometallics 2017, 36 (1) , 8-17. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00372
Murielle F. Delley, Marius-C. Silaghi, Francisco Nuñez-Zarur, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Oleg G. Salnikov, Deven P. Estes, Igor V. Koptyug, Aleix Comas-Vives, and Christophe Copéret . X–H Bond Activation on Cr(III),O Sites (X = R, H): Key Steps in Dehydrogenation and Hydrogenation Processes. Organometallics 2017, 36 (1) , 234-244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00744
Deven P. Estes, Georges Siddiqi, Florian Allouche, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Olga V. Safonova, Alexander L. Trigub, Igor V. Koptyug, and Christophe Copéret . C–H Activation on Co,O Sites: Isolated Surface Sites versus Molecular Analogs. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (45) , 14987-14997. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b08705
Iker Del Rosal, Ahmed Yahia, and Laurent Maron . Effects of the Grafting of Lanthanum Complexes on a Silica Surface on the Reactivity: Influence on Ethylene, Propylene, and 1,3-Butadiene Homopolymerization. Inorganic Chemistry 2016, 55 (20) , 10024-10033. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6b01238
Jilai Li, Shaodong Zhou, Jun Zhang, Maria Schlangen, Dandamudi Usharani, Sason Shaik, and Helmut Schwarz . Mechanistic Variants in Gas-Phase Metal-Oxide Mediated Activation of Methane at Ambient Conditions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (35) , 11368-11377. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07246
Ramij R. Mondal, Saikat Khamarui, and Dilip K. Maiti . CuBr–ZnI2 Combo-Catalysis for Mild CuI–CuIII Switching and sp2 C–H Activated Rapid Cyclization to Quinolines and Their Sugar-Based Chiral Analogues: A UV–Vis and XPS Study. ACS Omega 2016, 1 (2) , 251-263. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.6b00185
Christophe Copéret, Deven P. Estes, Kim Larmier, and Keith Searles . Isolated Surface Hydrides: Formation, Structure, and Reactivity. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (15) , 8463-8505. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00082
Juan I. González-Pérez, Avelino Martín, Miguel Mena, and Cristina Santamaría . C–H Activation on an Oxo-Bridged Dititanium Complex: From Alkyl to μ-Alkylidene Functionalities. Organometallics 2016, 35 (15) , 2488-2493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00381
Matthew E. O’Reilly, Saikat Dutta, and Adam S. Veige . β-Alkyl Elimination: Fundamental Principles and Some Applications. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (14) , 8105-8145. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00054
Jilai Li, Shaodong Zhou, Jun Zhang, Maria Schlangen, Thomas Weiske, Dandamudi Usharani, Sason Shaik, and Helmut Schwarz . Electronic Origins of the Variable Efficiency of Room-Temperature Methane Activation by Homo- and Heteronuclear Cluster Oxide Cations [XYO2]+ (X, Y = Al, Si, Mg): Competition between Proton-Coupled Electron Transfer and Hydrogen-Atom Transfer. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (25) , 7973-7981. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b03798
Alma I. Olivos-Suarez, Àgnes Szécsényi, Emiel J. M. Hensen, Javier Ruiz-Martinez, Evgeny A. Pidko, and Jorge Gascon . Strategies for the Direct Catalytic Valorization of Methane Using Heterogeneous Catalysis: Challenges and Opportunities. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (5) , 2965-2981. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00428
Takashi Kurogi, Patrick J. Carroll, and Daniel J. Mindiola . A Terminally Bound Niobium Methylidyne. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (13) , 4306-4309. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b00830
Hien N. Pham, Jesper J. H. B. Sattler, Bert M. Weckhuysen, and Abhaya K. Datye . Role of Sn in the Regeneration of Pt/γ-Al2O3 Light Alkane Dehydrogenation Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (4) , 2257-2264. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02917
Mark Bachrach, Tobin J. Marks, and Justin M. Notestein . Understanding the Hydrodenitrogenation of Heteroaromatics on a Molecular Level. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (3) , 1455-1476. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02286
Stéphanie Halbert, Christophe Copéret, Christophe Raynaud, and Odile Eisenstein . Elucidating the Link between NMR Chemical Shifts and Electronic Structure in d0 Olefin Metathesis Catalysts. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (7) , 2261-2272. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b12597
Christophe Copéret, Aleix Comas-Vives, Matthew P. Conley, Deven P. Estes, Alexey Fedorov, Victor Mougel, Haruki Nagae, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, and Pavel A. Zhizhko . Surface Organometallic and Coordination Chemistry toward Single-Site Heterogeneous Catalysts: Strategies, Methods, Structures, and Activities. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (2) , 323-421. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00373
Aleix Comas-Vives, Maxence Valla, Christophe Copéret, and Philippe Sautet . Cooperativity between Al Sites Promotes Hydrogen Transfer and Carbon–Carbon Bond Formation upon Dimethyl Ether Activation on Alumina. ACS Central Science 2015, 1 (6) , 313-319. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.5b00226
Zhong-Jian Cai, Chao Yang, Shun-Yi Wang, and Shun-Jun Ji . Palladium-Catalyzed Regioselective C–H Acylation of Biaryl-2-amines. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2015, 80 (16) , 7928-7936. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.5b00962
Weixing Gu, Madelyn Marie Stalzer, Christopher P. Nicholas, Alak Bhattacharyya, Alessandro Motta, James R. Gallagher, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller, Takeshi Kobayashi, Marek Pruski, Massimiliano Delferro, and Tobin J. Marks . Benzene Selectivity in Competitive Arene Hydrogenation: Effects of Single-Site Catalyst···Acidic Oxide Surface Binding Geometry. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2015, 137 (21) , 6770-6780. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b03254
Matthew P. Conley, Murielle F. Delley, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives, and Christophe Copéret . Heterolytic Activation of C–H Bonds on CrIII–O Surface Sites Is a Key Step in Catalytic Polymerization of Ethylene and Dehydrogenation of Propane. Inorganic Chemistry 2015, 54 (11) , 5065-5078. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic502696n
Pieter Vanelderen, Benjamin E. R. Snyder, Ming-Li Tsai, Ryan G. Hadt, Julie Vancauwenbergh, Olivier Coussens, Robert A. Schoonheydt, Bert F. Sels, and Edward I. Solomon . Spectroscopic Definition of the Copper Active Sites in Mordenite: Selective Methane Oxidation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2015, 137 (19) , 6383-6392. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b02817
Ali Hamieh, Yin Chen, Safwat Abdel-Azeim, Edy Abou-hamad, Serena Goh, Manoja Samantaray, Raju Dey, Luigi Cavallo, and Jean Marie Basset . Well-Defined Surface Species [(≡Si—O—)W(═O)Me3] Prepared by Direct Methylation of [(≡Si—O—)W(═O)Cl3], a Catalyst for Cycloalkane Metathesis and Transformation of Ethylene to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (4) , 2164-2171. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs5020749
Aleix Comas-Vives, Martin Schwarzwälder, Christophe Copéret, and Philippe Sautet . Carbon–Carbon Bond Formation by Activation of CH3F on Alumina. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (13) , 7156-7163. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp512598p
Nassima Riache, Alexandre Dery, Emmanuel Callens, Albert Poater, Manoja Samantaray, Raju Dey, Jinhua Hong, Kun Li, Luigi Cavallo, and Jean-Marie Basset . Silica-Supported Tungsten Carbynes (≡SiO)xW(≡CH)(Me)y (x = 1, y = 2; x = 2, y = 1): New Efficient Catalysts for Alkyne Cyclotrimerization. Organometallics 2015, 34 (4) , 690-695. https://doi.org/10.1021/om500684e
Cedric Colomban, Evgenij V. Kudrik, Valerie Briois, Janine C. Shwarbrick, Alexander B. Sorokin, and Pavel Afanasiev . X-ray Absorption and Emission Spectroscopies of X-Bridged Diiron Phthalocyanine Complexes (FePc)2X (X = C, N, O) Combined with DFT Study of (FePc)2X and Their High-Valent Diiron Oxo Complexes. Inorganic Chemistry 2014, 53 (21) , 11517-11530. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic501463q
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler, Javier Ruiz-Martinez, Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez, and Bert M. Weckhuysen . Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides. Chemical Reviews 2014, 114 (20) , 10613-10653. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr5002436
Junjun Shan, Weixin Huang, Luan Nguyen, Ying Yu, Shiran Zhang, Yuanyuan Li, Anatoly I. Frenkel, and Franklin (Feng) Tao . Conversion of Methane to Methanol with a Bent Mono(μ-oxo)dinickel Anchored on the Internal Surfaces of Micropores. Langmuir 2014, 30 (28) , 8558-8569. https://doi.org/10.1021/la501184b
Sergei S. Arzumanov, Ilya B. Moroz, Dieter Freude, Jürgen Haase, and Alexander G. Stepanov . Methane Activation on In-Modified ZSM-5 Zeolite. H/D Hydrogen Exchange of the Alkane with Brønsted Acid Sites. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (26) , 14427-14432. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp5037316
Matthew P. Conley, Christophe Copéret, and Chloé Thieuleux . Mesostructured Hybrid Organic–Silica Materials: Ideal Supports for Well-Defined Heterogeneous Organometallic Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2014, 4 (5) , 1458-1469. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs500262t
Jincan Zhao, Hong Fang, Wei Zhou, Jianlin Han, and Yi Pan . Iron-Catalyzed Cross-Dehydrogenative Coupling Esterification of Unactive C(sp3)–H Bonds with Carboxylic Acids for the Synthesis of α-Acyloxy Ethers. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2014, 79 (9) , 3847-3855. https://doi.org/10.1021/jo500192h
Shanping Chen, Yunfeng Liao, Feng Zhao, Hongrui Qi, Saiwen Liu, and Guo-Jun Deng . Palladium-Catalyzed Direct Arylation of Indoles with Cyclohexanones. Organic Letters 2014, 16 (6) , 1618-1621. https://doi.org/10.1021/ol500231c
Ja Hun Kwak, Robert Dagle, Gerald C. Tustin, Joseph R. Zoeller, Lawrence F. Allard, and Yong Wang . Molecular Active Sites in Heterogeneous Ir–La/C-Catalyzed Carbonylation of Methanol to Acetates. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2014, 5 (3) , 566-572. https://doi.org/10.1021/jz402728e
Miao Sun, Jizhe Zhang, Piotr Putaj, Valerie Caps, Frédéric Lefebvre, Jeremie Pelletier, and Jean-Marie Basset . Catalytic Oxidation of Light Alkanes (C1–C4) by Heteropoly Compounds. Chemical Reviews 2014, 114 (2) , 981-1019. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300302b
Manoja K. Samantaray, Emmanuel Callens, Edy Abou-Hamad, Aaron J. Rossini, Cory M. Widdifield, Raju Dey, Lyndon Emsley, and Jean-Marie Basset . WMe6 Tamed by Silica: ≡Si–O–WMe5 as an Efficient, Well-Defined Species for Alkane Metathesis, Leading to the Observation of a Supported W–Methyl/Methylidyne Species. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2014, 136 (3) , 1054-1061. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja410747g
Rory Waterman . σ-Bond Metathesis: A 30-Year Retrospective. Organometallics 2013, 32 (24) , 7249-7263. https://doi.org/10.1021/om400760k
Chun Zhang, Peng Feng, and Ning Jiao . Cu-Catalyzed Esterification Reaction via Aerobic Oxygenation and C–C Bond Cleavage: An Approach to α-Ketoesters. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (40) , 15257-15262. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja4085463
Marco G. Crestani, Anne K. Hickey, Xinfeng Gao, Balazs Pinter, Vincent N. Cavaliere, Jun-Ichi Ito, Chun-Hsing Chen, and Daniel J. Mindiola . Room Temperature Dehydrogenation of Ethane, Propane, Linear Alkanes C4–C8, and Some Cyclic Alkanes by Titanium–Carbon Multiple Bonds. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (39) , 14754-14767. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja4060178
Rulong Yan, Xingxing Liu, Congming Pan, Xiaoqiang Zhou, Xiaoni Li, Xing Kang, and Guosheng Huang . Aerobic Synthesis of Substituted Quinoline from Aldehyde and Aniline: Copper-Catalyzed Intermolecular C–H Active and C–C Formative Cyclization. Organic Letters 2013, 15 (18) , 4876-4879. https://doi.org/10.1021/ol402312h
Jian-Feng Wu, Si-Min Yu, Wei David Wang, Yan-Xin Fan, Shi Bai, Chuan-Wei Zhang, Qiang Gao, Jun Huang, and Wei Wang . Mechanistic Insight into the Formation of Acetic Acid from the Direct Conversion of Methane and Carbon Dioxide on Zinc-Modified H–ZSM-5 Zeolite. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (36) , 13567-13573. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja406978q
Anthoula C. Papageorgiou, Sybille Fischer, Seung Cheol Oh, Özge Sağlam, Joachim Reichert, Alissa Wiengarten, Knud Seufert, Saranyan Vijayaraghavan, David Écija, Willi Auwärter, Francesco Allegretti, Robert G. Acres, Kevin C. Prince, Katharina Diller, Florian Klappenberger, and Johannes V. Barth . Self-Terminating Protocol for an Interfacial Complexation Reaction in Vacuo by Metal–Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition. ACS Nano 2013, 7 (5) , 4520-4526. https://doi.org/10.1021/nn401171z
Load more citations
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. (a) Formation of Metal−Alkyl Intermediates by C−H Bond Activation on M−OS, with OS Designating the O Atoms of the Oxide Surface and (b) Related Activation of H2
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Heterolytic Splitting of H-X on Al−OS Sites (Defect Sites): (a) X = CH3 and (b) X = H (S = surface) and x = 0 or 1. (c) σ-bond Metathesis Transition State
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. (a) Formation of the Active Sites of MeReO3/Al2O3 via C−H Bond Activation. (b) Formation of the Key Carbene Intermediates and Alkylidene Exchange Reaction (π-Bond Metathesis). (c) Grafting of Cp*2M(CH3)2 on Dehydroxylated Alumina (M = U or Th)
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Possible Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Ga2O3: (a) Formation of Alkenes; (b) Formation of H2
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Oxidation of Butane into Maleic Anhydride on VPO Catalyst: (a) Reaction Intermediates; (b) Most Commonly Accepted Mechanism for the Formation of 2-Butene
Scheme 6
Scheme 7
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Selective Chlorination of Methane by HCl/O2 Catalyzed by LaCl3 and the Proposed C−H Bond Activation Step
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Proposed Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Supported Chromium Oxides
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. C−H Bond Activation of Alkanes on Surface Metal Oxo Species (x = 0 or 1)
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. (a) ODH of Propane on Silica Supported VOx. (b) Proposed Mechanisms
Scheme 12
Figure 1
Figure 1. Computational models for Ga+, GaO+, and [Ga2O2]2+ sites of a Ga-zeolite, e.g. zeolite = MOR. Adapted from ref 186 with the help of the authors. Copyright 2009 Royal Society of Chemistry.
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. Dehydrogenation of Alkanes on Ga-Zeolites: (a) Ga+ Active Sites, (b) Ga═O+ Active Sites, and (c) Ga2O2 Active Sites
Figure 2
Figure 2. Computational models for σ-alkane Cu complexes in zeolites. Adapted from ref 208 with the help of the authors.
Scheme 14
Scheme 14. (a) Selective Oxidation of Benzene into Phenol by N2O Catalyzed by Fe-Zeolites; (b) Mechanism via Direct C−H Bond Activation; (c) Mechanism via Epoxidation
Scheme 15
Scheme 15. (a) C−H Bond Activation of Cycloalkanes on Silica Supported Zirconium Hydrides [Zr−H]; (b) Formation and Structure of [Zr−H]; (c) H/D Exchange Reaction Catalyzed by [Zr−H] (M = Zr); (d) Stepwise Mechanism (Favored); (e) One-Step Mechanism (Unfavored)
Scheme 16
Scheme 16. (a) Formation and Structure of the Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides [Ta−H]; (b) Reaction of [Ta−H] with Cyclopentane; (c) Reaction of [Ta−H] with CH4
Scheme 17
Scheme 17. Alumina Supported Th Hydrides and H/D Exchange Reactions: (a) Formation of [Th−H]; (b) H/D Exchange of D2/Alkane Mixtures; (c) Selectivity in Isotopomer; (d) Chain Walking Mechanims of Incorporation of D at Different Positions of an Alkane
Scheme 18
Scheme 18. (a) Methyl/Methane Exchange on a d0 Metal, e.g. M = Zr; (b) Phenyl/Benzene Exchange on Ir
Scheme 19
Scheme 19. Reaction of Alkanes (RCH2CH3) with Alkyl Alkylidene Metal Surface Species, M(═CHR1)(CH2R2): (a) C−H Bond Activation; (b) Rearrangement; (c) Formation of Cross-metathesis Products
Scheme 20
Scheme 20. Formation of Alkylidene from Bis-alkyl Surface Species via: (a) Addition of an O−H on the Alkylidene Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, (b) σ-Bond Metathesis, (c) Addition of an O−H on a Nitrido Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, and (c) Formation of a Bis-alkyl Species Followed by α-H Abstraction
Scheme 21
Scheme 21. Grafting of (a) [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2] on SiO2-(700), Yielding [(≡SiO)Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2], and of (b) [M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] on Silica or Alumina, Yielding [(EO)M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] (M = Mo or W; R = tBu; and E = Si or Al of Silica or Alumina Surfaces)
Scheme 22
Scheme 22. (a) Deactivation of Polymerization Catalysts by Formation of π-Allyl Species; (b) Deactivation of Alkene Metathesis Catalysts by Decomposition of Metallacyclobutane Intermediates (e.g. the Well-Defined Silica Supported Re Alkylidene Complex); and (c) H/D Exchange via Chain Walking
Scheme 23
Scheme 23. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Zr−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Steps for Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) a Bis-hydrides (R = CH3 for Propane). (d) β-Alkyl Transfer for M-Cycloalkyl Intermediates
Scheme 24
Scheme 24. Possible Product Formation in the Hydrogenolysis of (a) Butane and (b) 3-Methylpentane
Scheme 25
Scheme 25. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Ta−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) Tris-hydride Active Sites (R = CH3 for Propane)
Scheme 26
Scheme 26. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Hydrogenolysis of Cyclic Alkanes with Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides: (A) Initial C−H Bond Activation and C−C Bond Cleavage and (B) Formation of Products
Scheme 27
Scheme 27. (a) General Equation for the Reaction of Alkane Metathesis; (b) Major Products in Alkane Metathesis; (c) Proposed Two-Site Mechanism for the Catalytic Metathesis of Alkanes (Only One of the Two Possible Metallacyclobutanes Is Represented); (d) Selected Catalyst Precursors (See Table 4 for Details)
Scheme 28
Scheme 28. Formation of Alkyl Alkylidene Intermediates from Tantalum Hydrides
Scheme 29
Scheme 29. (a) Metathesis of 2-Methylpropane; (b) Key Carbon−Carbon Bond Forming Steps from the Metallocarbene Hydride Intermediates; (c) Cross-metathesis of Ethane and Toluene
Scheme 30
Scheme 30. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Homologation of Alkanes by Oxide Supported Zirconium Hydrides
Scheme 31
Scheme 31. Catalytic Conversions of Methane via (a) Cross-metathesis with Propane, (b) Nonoxidative Coupling, (c) C−C Bond Formation in Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane, and (d) Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane and Benzene
Christophe Coperet
Christophe Copéret graduated from CPE Lyon in 1992 (Lyon, France) and obtained a PhD in chemistry in 1996 from Purdue University (West Lafayette, USA) under the guidance of Prof. E. Negishi. After a postdoctoral position in the group of Prof. K. B. Sharpless at the Scripps Research Institute, he accepted a CNRS position in 1998 in the Laboratoire de Chimie Organométallique de Surface, and he was promoted in 2008 as a CNRS research director. His research interests are at the frontier of organometallic and material chemistry, catalysis, solid state NMR spectroscopy and computational chemistry with the aim to design and develop - via a molecular approach - functional materials with applications in catalysis, bioimaging and microelectronics.

SPECIAL ISSUE
This article is part of the 2010 Selected Functionalization of CH Bonds special issue.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The selective activation and transformation of alkanes or aromatics have been a research goal for several decades. (1-3) Today, research in this area is strongly motivated by the need to optimize resources and to shorten the number of steps, hence the direct and selective transformation of petrochemicals into valuable products is therefore of major interest. Any of these processes will have first to rely on the selective C−H bond activation. This has been the holy grail in molecular organometallic chemistry and homogeneous catalysis for some years; (1, 4, 5) several success stories have appeared in the past ten years, (6-9) including progress in the direct catalytic functionalization of methane into methanol. (10-13) However, finding stable catalytic systems using acceptable operating conditions remains a challenge. In heterogeneous catalysis, several large scale industrial processes are based on the selective C−H bond activation of alkanes and lead to the synthesis of more valuable and functionalized products in a single step, for instance the direct oxidation of butane into maleic anhydride, (14-16) the dehydrogenation of propane into propene, (17, 18) or the direct transformation of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) into aromatics. (19-24)
C−H bond activation is in fact a ubiquitous process in heterogeneous catalysis. It involves various types of mechanisms and intermediates. C−H bond activation involving carbonium and carbenium ion intermediates (3, 25-27) or taking place on metal particles (supported or not) or clean metal surfaces (28-35) has been extensively reviewed in the past years. Here, we will focus on processes involving C−H bond activation of alkanes and aromatics on isolated metal centers of surfaces on oxide materials leading to organometallic species and/or intermediates. The review is divided into two main sections focusing on the C−H bond activation on oxide materials and related systems (section ) and on well-defined organometallic complexes supported on oxide materials (section ). Section is subdivided into four parts describing C−H bond activation on bulk oxides, bulk metal halides, supported transition-metal oxides, and metal-exchange zeolites.
Oxide Materials and Related Systems
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Bulk Oxides
Stoichiometric C−H Bond Activation and H/D Exchange Processes
H/D exchange processes in D2/alkane and CH4/CD4 mixtures are catalyzed by various metal oxides (MxOy), and in most cases they take place via C−H bond activation and formation of a metal-alkyl intermediate (Scheme 1a). A comprehensive study of the reactivity of oxides in H/D exchange processes shows that oxide materials can be divided into four main categories: (36, 37) those with (1) no activity: Nb2O5, MoO3, SiO2, SnO2, Tb4O7, WO3, and Y2O3, (2) low activity: CeO2, Fe2O3, Mn2O3, and TiO2, (3) moderate activity: Al2O3, CaO, Gd2O3, La2O3, MgO, Nd2O3, Pr6O11, Sm2O3, Yb2O3, and ZrO2, and (4) higher activity: Cr2O3, Ga2O3, and ZnO. Note that this trend is similar to what has been observed for the activity of these oxides in hydrogenation (38-41) or in the H/D exchange reaction of a H2/D2 mixture (Scheme 1b). (42) This probably indicates that the active sites are likely the same in all these cases. Additionally, the primary product of the reaction of D2 and CH4 is CH3D, which is in agreement with a stepwise incorporation of deuterium. (37, 43) Note that the activity in H/D exchange reactions of these oxides can be related to neither the Lewis acidity nor the Lewis basicity of the oxide materials.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. (a) Formation of Metal−Alkyl Intermediates by C−H Bond Activation on M−OS, with OS Designating the O Atoms of the Oxide Surface and (b) Related Activation of H2
In particular, H/D exchange and C−H bond activation processes have been extensively studied on alumina in the past 40 years. (44-60) All these studies agree that H/D exchange takes place (1) on a small amount of surface sites (defect sites), ca. 0.02−0.04/nm2 (to be compared with an OH density of 4 OH/nm2 after dehydroxylation at 500 °C), which are formed upon thermal treatments above 400 °C, and (2) via the heterolytic splitting of the C−H bond on highly reactive Al−O surface sites (σ-bond metathesis or ambiphilic C−H activation). (61) The most recent study combining experiment (titration, IR, and solid state NMR) and theory showed that, in the case of methane, C−H bond activation occurs on AlIII sites, the most unsaturated and reactive Al sites, and generates surface AlSOH and AlIV−CH3 species (Scheme 2). (60) It has also been proposed that other alkanes should react in similar ways with these sites and could be further converted into alkenes. (62) Similarly to CH4, H2 reacts with the same AlIIIO sites but also with the less reactive AlIVO sites. (60)
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Heterolytic Splitting of H-X on Al−OS Sites (Defect Sites): (a) X = CH3 and (b) X = H (S = surface) and x = 0 or 1. (c) σ-bond Metathesis Transition State
It is probable that C−H bond activation on other oxides takes place via similar processes and involves organometallic intermediates. This includes aluminosilicates, whether amorphous or crystalline (zeolites), (59, 63) which display analogous reactivity toward H2 and alkanes. In fact, similar activation energies for the H/D exchange process were also measured. It is therefore likely that H/D exchange processes take place via heterolytic splitting of C−H and H−H bonds on highly reactive Al sites, a process involving lower activation barriers (50−80 kJ/mol) than those involving carbonium or carbenium ions (typically Ea of 120−150 kJ/mol).
Finally, the C−H bond activation of alkyl fragments can also occur during the chemisorption of organometallic compounds on alumina (grafting). While grafting typically takes place via reaction of the surface hydroxyls with the reactive M−C bond, (64-67) in the particular case of MeReO3, it was shown that grafting occurred via either coordination of the oxo ligand on Lewis acid sites or C−H bond activation of the methyl group on defect sites. (68-70) This yields [CH3ReO3 → AlS] and [AlSCH2ReO3] as the major and the minor surface species, respectively (Scheme 3a). In view of the high activity of this system in alkene metathesis and labeling experiments, (68, 69, 71, 72) it was also shown that the μ-methylidene species [AlSCH2ReO3] correspond to the active sites of the catalyst (Scheme 3b). It is noteworthy that other supports such as nobia, (73) silica−alumina, (71) and zeolite (74) can be used to activate CH3ReO3, and one could propose that similar active species are formed on these supports via C−H bond activation of the methyl group on reactive M−OS sites. Finally, C−H bond activation processes yielding μ-methylidene surface species have also been proposed to explain the formation of minor species in the chemisorption of Cp2M(CH3)2 on highly dehydroxylated alumina (Scheme 3c, M = U and Th). (66, 75, 76)
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. (a) Formation of the Active Sites of MeReO3/Al2O3 via C−H Bond Activation. (b) Formation of the Key Carbene Intermediates and Alkylidene Exchange Reaction (π-Bond Metathesis). (c) Grafting of Cp*2M(CH3)2 on Dehydroxylated Alumina (M = U or Th)
Alkane Dehydrogenation on Metal Oxides
In alkane dehydrogenation, one possible reaction pathway involved the formation of a metal−alkyl intermediate, which undergoes β-H elimination and generates an alkene. Of various oxides, Ga2O3, whether supported or not, catalytically dehydrogenates alkanes such as ethane and propane into the corresponding alkenes in the absence of O2, (77-81) a reactivity closely related to what is observed with Ga-exchange zeolites (vide infra section ). Note that Cr2O3 or Fe2O3 display a much lower activity and that Al2O3 and SiO2 are almost inactive for this reaction. (82, 83) This order of reactivity parallels again this observed for H/D exchange reactions (vide supra). Moreover, it has been shown that cofeeding CO2 typically increases both the activity and the stability of these nonoxidative dehydrogenation catalysts; possibly because CO2 plays the role of a mild oxidant and prevents coke formation. (80, 81, 84, 85) A detailed mechanistic investigation of the dehydrogenation process by periodic DFT calculations shows that the C−H bond activation can take place via either heterolytic splitting on highly reactive Ga−OS or H-abstraction on a reactive OS site, leading to an adsorbed alkyl radical intermediate and a surface hydroxyl, with the latter process being slightly favored (Scheme 4). (86) Both pathways can converge toward Ga−alkyl intermediates, which were observed experimentally, (87) but the radical mechanism can also yield Ga−alkoxy species. Calculations also show that all these intermediates, i.e. the adsorbed alkyl radical and the Ga−alkyl and the Ga−alkoxy species, can readily yield propene via further H-transfer: (i) from the radical intermediate [a subsequent H-transfer by another OS atom, yielding propene and a reduced Ga-center, is preferred over the formation of Ga−H], (ii) from the alkoxy species [H-transfer to an adjacent surface oxygen with a concomitant reduction of Ga is also favored compared to H-transfer to a surface Ga leading to Ga−H (not shown), but the most favored pathway is the cleavage of the O−C bond and the formation of the radical], and (iii) from the alkyl species [β-H transfer forming Ga−H and propene is also disfavored compared to H-transfer to adjacent O atoms].
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Possible Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Ga2O3: (a) Formation of Alkenes; (b) Formation of H2
The most likely mechanism for propane dehydrogenation into propene on Ga2O3 takes place via H-transfer on O sites and a concomitant reduction of surface Ga-centers. As already pointed out, metal−alkyl intermediates have been observed (87) but could only correspond to dormant species of the overall catalytic cycle. The thus-generated alkyl radical generates via H-transfer the alkene and GaIII−H. This intermediate can then decompose into H2 to regenerate the initial surface sites (GaIII). However, H-transfer can also lead to the formation of strongly adsorbed H2O: this process is easier than the formation of H2, even if overall H2 formation is easier than that of gaseous H2O. Note that the competitive formation/desorption of H2O leads to a modification of the reduction of Ga sites (GaI). This would explain the fast deactivation of Ga2O3 as well as the beneficial effect of added H2O (88) and CO2, with the former inducing H2 desorption and the latter reoxidation of Ga centers. (80, 81, 84, 85) Note that the dehydrogenation activity of Ga2O3 (compared to those of Al2O3 and SiO2 for instance) could be related to the ease of formation of reduced surface species, i.e. GaI. While the dehydrogenation of alkanes on Ga2O3 is promising, rapid deactivation is still a major problem. Improved stabilities have been obtained by using solid solution in alumina (83) or by using supported systems. (88, 89)
Oxidative Dehydrogenation and Selective Oxidation of Alkanes
All selective oxidations of alkanes start by C−H bond activation, which is often the rate-limiting step, and this key step is usually an H-abstraction by surface oxygen species yielding radical intermediates, which are further transformed into the products via multiple steps, and no evidence for metal−alkyl intermediates has been found. It typically involves the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, i.e. the oxidation of the alkane by the metal oxide and reoxidation of the solid by molecular oxygen. This area has been comprehensively reviewed, (14-17, 90-92) and only a few examples will be discussed thereafter, mainly to illustrate the current possible mechanisms involved in the C−H bond activation step.
The direct and selective conversion of alkanes into oxygenates by oxidation with molecular oxygen has been a great challenge for decades. Note that high selectivities are usually achieved for very specific substrates, which yield very stable products, e.g. propane → acrylic acid, butane → maleic anhydride, xylene → phtalic anhydride.... The most noteworthy example of this series is probably the direct conversion of butane into maleic anhydride with high selectivities (up to 97% at 65% conversion), and it is in fact a commercial process. (14, 93) One of the best catalytic systems is based on vanadium phosphate (VPO), which is also used to convert selectively o-xylene into phtalic anhydride. Butane oxidation into maleic anhydride corresponds to a 14-electron oxidation process and involves several key stages: formation of butenes, then butadiene, and 1,4-dihydrofuran, which is then subsequently converted into maleic anhydride (Scheme 5a). (90, 94) While the actual elementary steps of such a complicated process and the nature of the active sites are still matters of debates, the rate determining step is the C−H bond activation of butane. The most commonly accepted mechanism involves the conversion of butane into 2-butenes via a concerted abstraction of two hydrogen atoms on VIV−O species (Scheme 5b), (95, 96) which is followed by the reoxidation of the active phase by O2 (the Mars van Krevelen mechanism). Alternative mechanisms have been proposed, such as the H-abstraction of butane by activated O2 coordinated to VIV centers, which leads to strongly adsorbed 2-butene or 2-butanone, which can then be converted into butadiene via Brönsted acid catalysis. (97)
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Oxidation of Butane into Maleic Anhydride on VPO Catalyst: (a) Reaction Intermediates; (b) Most Commonly Accepted Mechanism for the Formation of 2-Butene
The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is also another important reaction. (98) One of the key problems is that the oxidation of the alkene product is often easier (faster) than that of the starting alkane. This consequently requires operating the process at low conversions in order to reach high selectivities. ODH can be carried out on various bulk metal oxides (e.g., V2O5), albeit in very low yield per pass. In fact, the corresponding supported systems give usually much higher activity and selectivity; they are discussed in more detail in section (vide infra). Of several other systems that have been investigated, MOP (M = Ti, Zr, V, Fe), (99, 100) VMgOx, (98, 101, 102) VSiZrOx, (103, 104) and CrSiMO (M = Al or Zr) (105) show relatively high selectivities. In all cases, the C−H bond activation has also been identified as the rate determining step. Note again that ODH, and in particular that of ethane, necessitates relatively high temperatures (above 600 °C), for which homogeneous gas phase reactions can be predominant. It has been proposed that C−H bond activation probably leads to M−alkyl intermediates (not observed), which readily decompose to the corresponding 1-alkene by abstraction of a β-H of the alkyl chain by a surface oxygen atom (Scheme 6). An alternative concerted 2H-abstraction mechanism can be proposed by analogy with what has been proposed in the selective oxidation of alkanes on VPO catalysts (vide supra, Scheme 5b). (98, 103) The selectivity of dehydrogenation vs formation of oxygenated products has been correlated to the distance between sites, which implies the need for site isolation.
Scheme 6
The conversion of propene into acrolein and acrylonitrile (ammoxidation) using bismuth−molybdate catalysts is a well-known process (eqs 1 and ), (106, 107) and the corresponding ammoxidation process of propane has been developed (eq 3). (92, 108) This process involves propene as a key intermediate, and the subsequent elementary steps are those of propene ammoxidation. Note however that the ammoxidation of propane requires much higher reaction temperatures (>500 °C) and longer residential time than that of propene and that the conversion of propane into propene is not catalyzed and involves mainly a gas phase reaction. In all these processes, propene, whether the reactant or generated in situ, is converted via a C−H bond activation involving a H-abstraction to generate a stabilized propenyl radical (Scheme 7). (109) Considering the number of subsequent steps, the selectivity is therefore a critical issue, and it relies on site isolation of active phases (note the difference with single-site catalysts): a too high density leads to combustion of propene and a too low density to the formation of allyl radical, thus leading to C6 byproduct. (110) Several catalysts can be used, including the well-known ammoxidation catalyst MoBiOx, but more complex systems have been developed involving multicomponent oxides based on Mo−V−Nb−Ta−Sb−Te.... (111-113) Similarly, the conversions of propane into acrylic (eq 4) and of 2-methylpropane into methacrylic acid (eq 5) have been studied in detail with similar types of catalysts: VPO, bismuth-molybdate catalysts, and multicompenent oxide catalysts, e.g. Mo−V−Te(Sb). (114, 115)
Scheme 7
Finally, oxidative coupling of methane into ethylene has also been extensively studied (eq 6), and it is catalyzed by bulk oxides and particularly alkaline earth oxides (MgO) (116, 117) or rare earth oxides (La2O3), (106) typically doped with alkali ions (Li). (118, 119) While M−alkyl intermediates might be formed at lower temperatures, (120) the key step of this reaction is a H-abstraction, the formation of radical intermediates, and subsequent gas phase reactions. (121-123) This limits the selectivity of this reaction: currently, 80% C2 selectivity at 20% conversion (with a projected maximum of 30% yield). (124)
Bulk Metal Halides
It is noteworthy that bulk metal halides and, in particular, LaCl3 catalyze several processes involving C−H bond activation: for instance, the selective transformation of methane into chloromethane (Scheme 8) (125) and the hydrogen−chlorine exchange between chlorinated hydrocarbons; for example, CHCl3 and CHCl3 are transformed into 2CH2Cl2 (eq 7). (126) In contrast to the chlorination of methane by Cl2, which involves a radical chain reaction (eq 8), the reaction catalyzed by LaCl3 yields selectively CH3Cl. The conversion of methane into chloromethane, catalyzed at 400 °C by LaCl3, requires HCl and O2, (125) and the C−H bond activation occurs at the surface of the material on LaClO sites, which are generated by the partial oxidation of the surface chloride of LaCl3 by O2. The oxide is then transformed back into the chloride material by exchange with HCl, and water is desorbed. In the absence of O2, LaClO is consumed and LaCl3 becomes inactive.
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Selective Chlorination of Methane by HCl/O2 Catalyzed by LaCl3 and the Proposed C−H Bond Activation Step
Supported Transition-Metal Oxides
These systems have been widely studied in the past decades, in particular because of their catalytic properties, which allow a broad range of catalytic alkane transformations: alkane dehydrogenation (18, 127) and oxidative dehydrogenation as well as selective oxidation of alkanes. (98, 128-131) Of several catalysts, supported group 5 and 6 metal oxides, typically VOx, (101, 132, 133) NbOx, (134) CrOx, (18, 127) MoOx, and WOx, (135) are particularly interesting. These systems are characterized by the presence of isolated sites or small clusters at a low surface coverage; with bulk oxides being formed only at higher surface coverage (above a monolayer). (106, 110) Independently of the catalysts and the reactions, the C−H bond activation is often the rate determining step. We will discuss in a first part the dehydrogenation of alkanes and then in a second part both the oxidative dehydrogenation and selective oxidation of alkanes into oxygenates, because they have common reaction intermediates.
Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
The CATOFIN process, which is used to produce propene and isobutene from the corresponding alkanes, is performed with catalysts based on chromium oxide supported on alumina. (18, 127) Despite the complexity of the surface state of the catalysts, a consensus has been emerging: the active sites probably correspond to an isolated Cr3+ in a pseudo-octahedral environment (Scheme 9a). (136, 137) However, other active species such as small chromium oxide clusters are likely participating in the overall process. The current proposed mechanism involves the C−H bond activation on a Cr−OS bond, thus forming a Cr-alkyl intermediate, which can decompose via β-H transfer, (138, 139) to form the alkene and a CrIII−H surface species. While the direct elimination of H2 from this species is highly disfavored, the subsequent C−H bond activation on this intermediate via a favorable σ-bond metathesis step leads to a new M−alkyl intermediate and thereby to a viable catalytic pathway (Scheme 9b). One of the problems of this process is its high endothermicity and the low associated conversion. This is compensated by the use of high reaction temperatures, which are accompanied by a deactivation of the catalyst via coke formation. Therefore, research efforts have concentrated on finding more stable catalysts using different supports (SiO2, ZrO2, ...) (106) or on using promoters such as CO2, which can displace the equilibrium and slow down coke formation for silica supported systems. (140, 141)
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Proposed Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Supported Chromium Oxides
Oxidative Dehydrogenation and Selective Oxidation of Alkanes
It is possible to increase the yield of alkane dehydrogenation using molecular oxygen as coreactant to displace the thermodynamic equilibrium by oxidation of coproduct H2 into H2O. (131) However, despite years of research, the yields are still limited, and this reaction needs to operate at low conversions to avoid large amounts of overoxidation products (COx). The best catalyst used for the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkane (ODH), and typically that of propane, is based on VOx supported on oxide materials, (98, 130, 131, 133) but MoOx supported catalysts are becoming competitive. (142-144) These types of catalysts can also be used to catalytically convert methane into oxygenates, e.g. formaldehyde, in the presence of O2 or N2O, albeit with a low yield (2−5%; high selectivity only obtained at low conversions): VOx, (145-147) MoOx, (148-150) WOx, (151) as well as FeOx. (152-154) While leading to very different products, these reactions have common reaction intermediates and have the same rate determining step, i.e. C−H bond activation. (155, 156) Elementary steps for these reactions and particularly the C−H bond activation step have been a matter of debate for many years, and several reaction pathways can be proposed depending on the structure of the active sites: terminal metal oxo or μ-oxo species, isolated vs polynuclear species (Scheme 8). (157-160) First, C−H bond activation on a terminal oxo species can take place via addition of the C−H bond across the M=O bond, [2 + 2]; two approaches are possible, leading to alkyl or hydride intermediates, respectively (Scheme 10a and b). Alternatively, C−H bond activation on the terminal oxo species can lead directly to the formation of the corresponding alcohol bound to the reduced metal center (oxenoïd insertion mechanism, Scheme 10c). C−H bond activation can occur via H-abstraction, generating an alkyl radical intermediate; on bis-oxo species, typically present on MoOx systems, syn and anti approaches are possible (Schemes 10d and e). H-abstraction can also occur on μ-O bridge species (Scheme 10f). Finally, C−H bond activation can also occur via [3 + 2]- or [5 + 2]-activation for sites with gem and vicinal bis-oxo species, respectively (Schemes 10g and h). These processes involve either nonredox two-electron processes (the heterolytic splitting of the C−H bond on acid−base centers), redox two-electron processes ([n + m]-processes), or a redox one-electron process generating radicals. DFT calculations on cluster models clearly show that the lowest energy barrier is usually associated with the H-abstraction process on terminal oxo species (anti better than syn) with Cr (20.0 kcal mol−1) < V (35.5 kcal mol−1) < Mo (45.0 kcal mol−1) < W (56.8 kcal mol−1). (159) However, C−H bond activation leading to a metal−alkyl intermediate (Scheme 10b) can be competitive in some cases: W (43.6 kcal mol−1) < Mo (50.1 kcal mol−1) < V (57.0 kcal mol−1) < Cr (not found). So far, however, no metal−alkyl intermediate has been experimentally observed for these systems.
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. C−H Bond Activation of Alkanes on Surface Metal Oxo Species (x = 0 or 1)
Oxidative Dehydrogenation (ODH) on Supported VOx
The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane are promising processes. (131) In the specific case of the conversion of ethane into ethene, it is even competitive with steam cracking. Supported vanadium oxides are particularly noteworthy because the active sites possibly involve isolated VO species (in contrast to the other systems based on MoOx or WOx). In fact, both too low and too high surface V densities are detrimental to high selectivities, and this has been associated with the combustion of the thus-formed alkenes into COx on the support and/or the polymeric V species. (133, 161-163) Such processes are particularly important for alkenes having allylic C−H bonds, e.g. propene and higher alkenes, which are more readily activated. Small clusters and particularly isolated sites on fully covered oxide surfaces have been proposed to be essential to achieve high selectivities. It is therefore not surprising that the support is an important component in the catalyst formulation, as it can more or less stabilize isolated centers, small clusters vs larger V2O5 crystallites. Overall, silica can be regarded as the optimal support in terms of selectivity. Another important fact is that the optimal temperature window for this process is quite narrow, and around 500 °C, lower temperatures favor combustion while unselective gas phase reactions start to be competitive at higher temperatures (>550 °C). (161, 162, 164) This is directly related to the easier C−H bond activation of propene, the product, which is associated with a lower activation energy than the C−H bond activation of propane, the reactant. ODH on supported VOx also follows the typical Mars−van Krevelen mechanism, i.e. oxidation of the alkane with a concomitant reduction of metal oxo surface species followed by a reoxidation of the active sites by molecular oxygen and desorption of water. (165) Reoxidation of the catalyst is fast, and the rate determining step of the overall process is again the first C−H bond activation of the alkane. The terminal oxo species of VV surface species are the most reactive O sites according to DFT calculations on a model for isolated silica supported vanadyl species (Scheme 11). (166) Similar results were obtained by periodic calculations on V2O5. (167, 168) The most favored C−H bond activation step corresponds to a H-abstraction, which yields a radical intermediate and a reduced VIV−OH species. Calculations also suggest that the formation of propene in the propane dehydrogenation is most favored via subsequent H-abstraction of the propyl radical on an adjacent isolated VO species (in place of further reduction of vanadium into VIII(OH2). (166, 169) In all cases, reoxidation of VIII or VIV species is always easy with O2.
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. (a) ODH of Propane on Silica Supported VOx. (b) Proposed Mechanisms
Metal-Exchanged Zeolites
Metal exchange zeolites (M-zeolites) have concentrated a large research effort, because of their ability to transform alkanes into alkenes and aromatics. (23, 170-172) They can also be used to catalyze the alkylation of aromatics with methane, (173) the coaromatization of methane and alkanes, (174) and the direct aromatization of methane (Scheme 12). (173, 175, 176) While all these transformations are still subject to many mechanistic debates and detailed investigations, M−alkyl species are probably key intermediates. They are formed via C−H bond activation on isolated (M−OS), dinuclear (M2O2), or more complex polynuclear sites (MxOy). These M-zeolites can be of various structures (typically identified with three letter codes: MFI, MOR, ZSM-5...) (177) and compositions, and can include a wide range of metals M, ranging from main group (Al, Ga) to transition-metal elements (Cu, Fe, Mn, Mo, Pt, W, Zn, ...). A vast research effort has focused on Ga- and Zn-zeolites because of their industrial relevance and their unprecedented reactivity, and these systems will be discussed hereafter in more detail.
Scheme 12
For instance, the Cyclar and related processes (aroforming or Z-forming) typically use Ga-zeolite to convert in a single step liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), composed of propane and butane, into H2 and liquid aromatics, i.e., benzene, toluene, and xylenes. (19-24) Conversion of alkanes into aromatics takes place via successive dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and cyclization steps. While all these steps are not fully understood, Ga-zeolites act as a multifunctional catalyst, and one of the key steps, the formation of alkenes from alkanes, takes place at Ga sites and involves a C−H bond activation and formation of a Ga−alkyl intermediate. Ga-zeolites are also known to activate H2 (178, 179) and alkanes and to catalyze H/D exchange reactions. (20) In all cases, the active sites probably result from charge-compensation of framework aluminum by mononuclear Ga ([Ga+], (180, 181) [Ga(═O)+] (180, 182-184)) or dinuclear species [Ga2O22+] (Figure 1). (185-187) These species correspond to highly Lewis acidic centers, which can readily polarize and activate the C−H bond of alkanes as well as H2 to generate Ga−R (or Ga−H) and OH surface species (Scheme 13). Model studies show that [Ga+]-species have a relatively low activation barrier for C−H bond activation of ethane via heterolytic splitting followed by a rearrangement into [Ga(H)(Et)+] and then the concomitant elimination of H2 and ethene (Scheme 13a). (181) C−H bond activation on [Ga(O)+] generates [Ga(R)(OH)+]-species, which can readily generate ethene and [Ga(H)(OH)+]-species. However, the latter species are not prompt to eliminate H2 to regenerate [Ga(O)+], but H2O instead, leading to a reduction to Ga+ species (Scheme 13b). This shows that [Ga(O)+] is probably not the active site of choice for dehydrogenation. (188) More recent experimental and computational studies point toward dinuclear Ga species as active sites (Scheme 13c), for which all steps are favored. (186, 187) In particular, the easier desorption of H2 is noteworthy and probably results from the presence of less basic O sites in the dinuclear Ga2O22+ core with respect to this of the Ga+ or GaO+ site.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Computational models for Ga+, GaO+, and [Ga2O2]2+ sites of a Ga-zeolite, e.g. zeolite = MOR. Adapted from ref 186 with the help of the authors. Copyright 2009 Royal Society of Chemistry.
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. Dehydrogenation of Alkanes on Ga-Zeolites: (a) Ga+ Active Sites, (b) Ga═O+ Active Sites, and (c) Ga2O2 Active Sites
Zn-zeolites display a very similar reactivity pattern: H2 and alkane activation, H/D exchange, formation of aromatics from alkanes, (189, 190) and the coaromatization of methane and alkane. (173) Note also that Zn-zeolites probably contain similar dinuclear structures [Zn2O2] (Scheme 13c). (178, 179, 191-197) Alkane activation (including methane) also occurs via C−H bond activation and formation of metal−alkyl intermediates, which have been experimentally observed on different Zn-zeolites. (179, 195, 196, 198, 199) Of several studies on the H/D exchange reaction of D2/alkane mixtures on various Zn-zeolites, (20, 200-202) a recent comparative study of H- and Zn-zeolite (zeolite = BEA) shows that Zn-BEA displays a much lower activation energy and higher rates (ca. 2 orders of magnitude) than the corresponding H-zeolite, (201) which clearly shows that the reaction mechanisms are different for the two systems, i.e. carbonium ion for H-BEA vs metal−alkyl intermediates for Zn-BEA. M-exchange zeolites and particularly those containing Mo or even Zn also catalyze the direct conversion of methane into benzene and H2 with a high selectivity (>90%). (170, 172, 175, 176) While the structure and the nature of the active sites are still a matter of debate, it is accepted that methane is first converted into ethylene, which is then converted into benzene through acid catalysis. Several mechanisms have been proposed for the first step involving the formation of ethylene, and they involve the following: (1) carbocations, (2) radicals, or (3) organometallic intermediates, and more specifically alkylidenes, alkylidynes, or carbides. (203) Several experiments are consistent with the formation of Mo2C and imply that it could be the active species or a precursor of the active species. (204, 205) It is therefore possible that C−H bond activation on MoCx species leads to the growth of an alkyl chain and the formation of alkenes, similarly to what is observed in the nonoxidative coupling of methane on silica supported tantalum hydrides (vide infra, section). (206) Finally, besides C−H bond activation, it is noteworthy that stable σ-RH complexes could be observed for Cu-ZSM5 (Figure 2). (207, 208) From these studies, it is clear that metal−alkyl surface complexes are key reaction intermediates in the dehydrogenation/aromatization processes catalyzed by M-zeolites.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Computational models for σ-alkane Cu complexes in zeolites. Adapted from ref 208 with the help of the authors.
Under oxidizing conditions, metal-exchange zeolites, and, more specifically, those containing MoOx and WOx, catalyze the direct oxidation of methane into methanol/formaldehyde and related oxidation processes (see section ). (209-212) Here, it is probable that C−H bond activation takes place similarly to what has been proposed for MoOx and WOx supported on oxide materials (vide supra, section ), i.e. via H-abstraction and a radical mechanism. Moreover, Fe-zeolites are also noteworthy: they catalyze the direct and selective oxidation of benzene into phenol by N2O. (213-215) While this reaction corresponds to the selective functionalization of an aromatic C−H bond, several mechanisms are possible, such as the direct insertion of O in the C−H bond of benzene or the epoxidation followed by an acid catalyzed rearrangement of the unstable epoxide into phenol (Scheme 14). With methane, however, the reaction is stoichiometric, yielding stable MeO−Fe surface species, which can only yield methanol (in a stoichiometric way) upon extraction. (216)
Scheme 14
Scheme 14. (a) Selective Oxidation of Benzene into Phenol by N2O Catalyzed by Fe-Zeolites; (b) Mechanism via Direct C−H Bond Activation; (c) Mechanism via Epoxidation
Well-Defined Organometallic Complexes Supported on Oxide Materials
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The controlled reaction of molecular organometallic complexes on oxide surfaces yields well-defined organometallic complexes grafted on oxides with a variety of ligands such as hydrides, alkyls, alkylidenes, and alkylidynes, which are able to react with the C−H bond of alkanes. (217) Here, we will discuss in detail stoichiometric and catalytic processes involving C−H bond activation.
Stoichiometric C−H Bond Activation and H/D Exchange Processes
Activation of Alkanes on Silica Supported Metal Hydrides
M-alkyl surface fragments are readily formed upon the C−H bond activation of alkanes on silica supported metal hydrides. For instance, the silica supported zirconium hydrides (218-222) react with a wide range of alkanes, e.g., CH4, CnH2n+2, and cycloalkanes, at low temperatures to yield the corresponding metal alkyl complexes and H2, (223) as observed with analogous molecular d0 complexes (Scheme 15a). (224) In particular, C−H bond activation of propane is faster on primary carbons and yields the most stable n-propyl surface species along with the isopropyl surface species as the minor isomer. (225) This reaction takes place via σ-bond metathesis, which formally corresponds to the transfer of a proton from the alkane to the Zr-hydride. Here, the transition state has a quasi triangular shape with an almost linear arrangement of the C atom and the two H atoms. (226-230)
Scheme 15
Scheme 15. (a) C−H Bond Activation of Cycloalkanes on Silica Supported Zirconium Hydrides [Zr−H]; (b) Formation and Structure of [Zr−H]; (c) H/D Exchange Reaction Catalyzed by [Zr−H] (M = Zr); (d) Stepwise Mechanism (Favored); (e) One-Step Mechanism (Unfavored)
The most recent spectroscopic investigations showed that the silica supported zirconium hydrides were a mixture of mono- and bis-hydrides (Scheme 15b), (231) and the study of their relative reactivity toward CH4 showed that the bis-hydride is much more reactive, (232) which is consistent with calculations. (230) Additionally, these species catalyze H/D exchange in H2/D2 or CH4/D2 mixtures via a stepwise insertion of deuterium (Scheme 15c−e), with the former being very fast, even at temperatures below room temperature. (233) Computational studies have shown that the reaction pathway is probably a two-step mechanism involving C−H bond activation via σ-bond metathesis, thus forming a metal−alkyl intermediate, followed by hydrogenolysis (the reverse step), which regenerates the metal hydride and incorporates deuterium in the alkane (Scheme 15d). (228) A direct one-step reaction pathway is highly disfavored (Ea > 65 kcal mol−1), because it involves a four-center transition state with a carbon in the β-position (Scheme 15e). (227)
The related silica supported tantalum hydrides are prepared in a similar way. They are mixtures of surface species (Scheme 16a), and current data are consistent with the presence of mono- and tris-hydride species. (234) This system displays a similar reactivity to zirconium hydrides, i.e. the low temperature activation of alkanes and H/D exchange reactions, through very likely the same mechanism, σ-bond metathesis (Scheme 15c and d, M = Ta). (235-238) Nonetheless, in the specific case of cycloalkanes, the cycloalkyl surface species evolved toward more highly unsaturated species through dehydrogenation processes. For instance, activation of cyclopentane yields a well-defined silica supported cyclopentandienyl tantalum species, (238) which involves successive C−H bond activation processes (Scheme 16b). (239, 240) In the case of methane, it leads to the formation of Ta—CH3, Ta═CH2, and Ta≡CH species (Scheme 16c). (234) Computational studies suggest that the tris-hydride Ta species is probably the active species and activates alkanes via σ-bond metathesis. (241)
Scheme 16
Scheme 16. (a) Formation and Structure of the Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides [Ta−H]; (b) Reaction of [Ta−H] with Cyclopentane; (c) Reaction of [Ta−H] with CH4
Finally, alumina supported Th hydride species, generated by treatment under H2 of Th(allyl)4 supported on dehydroxylated alumina, catalyze H/D exchange reaction of a D2/alkane mixture (3−4 bar of D2 and alkane/Th ratio = 1000, Scheme 17a and b). (242) This reaction is fast, with rates of 800−1200 h−1, and is slightly selective for terminal C−H bonds (Scheme 17c). Overall, the incorporation of deuterium is not selective, and dimethylcyclohexanes undergo cis−trans isomerization during the H/D exchange process, probably via β-H transfer and a chain walking mechanism (Scheme 17d).
Scheme 17
Scheme 17. Alumina Supported Th Hydrides and H/D Exchange Reactions: (a) Formation of [Th−H]; (b) H/D Exchange of D2/Alkane Mixtures; (c) Selectivity in Isotopomer; (d) Chain Walking Mechanims of Incorporation of D at Different Positions of an Alkane
Like metal-hydride, metal-alkyl and metal-aryl species can activate C−H bonds, leading to the exchange of perhydrocarbyl ligand. (224, 243, 244) While not directly evidenced experimentally, computational studies suggest that the methyl/methyl exchange of the d0 zirconium methyl species in the presence of methane can readily take place via σ-bond metathesis (Scheme 18a). (228) Similarly, the silica supported Ir-complex (≡SiO)Ir(Ph)(PMe3)Cp* reacts with benzene to exchange its phenyl ligand, like its molecular equivalents (Scheme 18b). (245)
Scheme 18
Scheme 18. (a) Methyl/Methane Exchange on a d0 Metal, e.g. M = Zr; (b) Phenyl/Benzene Exchange on Ir
Activation of Alkanes on Silica Supported Metal Alkylidenes and Alkylidynes
Surface metal alkylidene species are typically formed via decomposition of bis-alkyl intermediates via α-H abstraction, (246) and the reverse step corresponds to the C−H bond activation of an alkane onto a M═C bond. (247-250) Evidence for this process has been obtained in the metathesis of alkane (CH3CH2R) on various well-defined metal neopentyl neopentylidene species (M = Ta, (251, 252) Mo, (253, 254) W, (255) and Re (254)) through the formation of cross-metathesis products with the following selectivity tBuCH3 > tBuCH2CH3 > tBuCH2CH2R, while the coupling product, tBuCH2CH2CH2R, is not detected (Table 1, entries 1−9). Note that the formation of these products requires neopentyl neopentylidene surface species and an alkane of general structure RCH2CH3. This implies that both the neopentyl and the neopentylidene ligands are important and that β-H transfer is probably a key step. These products probably result from a stepwise mechanism involving known elementary steps of molecular organometallic chemistry (Scheme 19, R1 = R2 = tBu): (i) C−H bond activation of RCH2CH3 on the metal alkylidene, thus forming an intermediate with three pendant alkyl ligands [M(CH2tBu)2(CH2CH2R)], (247-250) of which one has a β-H; alternative mechanisms are possible involving the replacement of the alkyl ligand via σ-bond metathesis or the formation of an alkylidyne ligand prior to C−H bond activation (Scheme 19a); (ii) decomposition of this intermediate via α-H abstraction leading to tBuCH3 and a neopentylidene alkyl intermediate [M(═CHtBu)(CH2CH2R)] (Scheme 19b); (iii) further decomposition via β-H abstraction, generating neopentylidene hydride intermediates [M(═CHtBu)(H)] and RCH═CH2; (iv) disproportionation of these intermediates via [2 + 2]-cycloaddition and cycloreversion, which yields two sets of products [M(═CHR)(H)]/tBuCH═CH2 and [M(═CH2)(H)]/tBuCH═CHR; (v) subsequent alkene insertion into the metal alkylidene hydride intermediates, C−H bond activation, and decomposition, generating [M(═CHR)(CH2R)] and [M(═CH2)(CH2R)] along with the cross-metathesis products tBuCH2CH3 and tBuCH2CH2R (Scheme 19c). The higher selectivity of tBuCH2CH3 compared to that of tBuCH2CH2R would be the consequence of the more facile approach in the [2 + 2]-cycloaddition step of the alkene in the former case (1,3) compared to the latter (1,2), which is consistent with what is observed in the cross-metathesis of propene and well-defined neopentylidene surface complexes (formation of about a 3 to 1 ratio of tBuCH═CH2 and tBuCH═CHMe). (256-259)
Table 1. Quantity of Cross-Metathesis Products (equiv./M) in the Reaction of Propane with Well-Defined Alkylidene and Alkylidyne Supported Species
entry supported metal complexes alkane cross-metathesis products tBuCH2X
X = H X = Me X = Et X = Pr
1 (≡SiO)Ta(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 ethane 0.84 0.27 a a
2 (≡SiO)Ta(=CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 propane 1.05 0.30 0.11 a
3 (≡SiO)Ta(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 2-methylpropane 1.09 0.44 a b
4 (≡SiO)Ta(=CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 butane 1.01 0.22 0.16 0.04
5 (≡SiO)Ta(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 2,2-dimethylpropane a a a a
6 (≡SiO)Mo(NAr)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) propane 0.82 0.34 0.10 a
7 (≡SiO)Mo(NAr)(=CHtBu)(NR2) propane a a a a
8 (≡SiO)W(NAr)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) propane 0.68 0.42 0.20 a
9 (≡SiO)Re(≡CtBu)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) propane 0.50 0.59 0.22 a
10 [(≡SiO)W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] propane a a a a
11 [(AlSO)W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2]c propane 0.40 0.02 a a
12 [(≡SiO)SiO2-Al2O3W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2]d propane 0.50 0.04 a a
aNot detected, <0.01 equiv.
b2,2,4-Trimethylpentane detected in very small amounts (<0.01 equiv).
cSupported on alumina.
dSupported on silica−alumina.
Scheme 19
Scheme 19. Reaction of Alkanes (RCH2CH3) with Alkyl Alkylidene Metal Surface Species, M(═CHR1)(CH2R2): (a) C−H Bond Activation; (b) Rearrangement; (c) Formation of Cross-metathesis Products
Finally, the reaction of propane with silica−alumina and alumina supported bisalkylalkylidyne W systems, namely [(AlSO)W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] or [(≡SiO)SiO2-Al2O3W(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2], (260-262) also yields the cross-metathesis products tBuCH3 and tBuCH2CH3 as well as tBuCH2CH2CH3. Nonetheless, the relative ratio of these products is very different from what is obtained by the alkyl alkylidene species and in particular the low selectivity of tBuCH2CH2CH3 (Table 1, entries 10−12). This probably shows that the mechanisms of formation of these products differ, and could result from with C—H bond activation of propane on the metal-alkylidyne species as recently demonstrated in molecular systems. (263-265) However, recent DFT calculations suggest that C−H bond activation on these alkyl alkylidyne complexes is a high energy process, and an alternative mechanism has been proposed, which involves the formation of alkene on alumina site by dehydrogenation (vide supra section ) and alkene metathesis on a bis-alkylidene intermediate. (62)
Intramolecular C−H Bond Activation Processes
Thermal decomposition of bis-alkyl surface species leads to formation of well-defined silica supported metal alkylidene complexes via α-H abstraction. This elementary step involves the intramolecular activation of the C−H bond at one of the alkyl ligands in the α-position by an adjacent ligand (here another alkyl), which corresponds to an intramolecular version of a σ-bond metathesis process. (246, 266) This process is typically observed upon the grafting of molecular alkylidene complexes on silica surfaces, e.g. Ta and Re, (267-269) which first react with the surface silanols via [1,2]-addition, yielding bis-alkyl species before decomposing into the alkylidene (Scheme 20a). Note however that other grafting pathways have been encountered; for example, grafting of Mo and W alkylidene complexes usually takes place via the direct electrophilic cleavage of σ-bonded ligands (Scheme 20b). (258, 259, 270) Note also that [(tBuCH2)3Mo(≡N)] reacts with surface silanols to generate [(≡SiO)Mo(═NH)(CH2tBu)3], which probably decomposes into the putative surface complex [(≡SiO) Mo(═NH)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)], as evidenced by the evolution of tBuCH3 and the high activity of this species in alkene metathesis (Scheme 20c). (271, 272) The α-H abstraction process has also been observed upon the thermal treatment of bis(alkyl) surface species [(≡SiO)2M(CH2R)2] (M = Ti, Zr, and Cr; Scheme 20d), which yields [(≡SiO)2M(═CHR)]. (273-275) Finally, the mechanism of grafting [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2], a d2 complex, is also noteworthy and leads to [(≡SiO)Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] via isomerization of the metal fragment from a bis-alkylidene into an alkyl alkylidyne complex (Scheme 21a). (276) One of the key steps involves an intramolecular C−H bond activation process, α-H transfer, to transform the bis-alkylidene into an alkyl alkylidyne fragment. Experimental and theoretical studies point toward two possible grafting processes: (i) isomerization of [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2] into [Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] upon coordination of a surface silanol through α-H transfers followed by σ-bond metathesis or (ii) grafting via σ-bond metathesis followed by isomerization of the metal fragment. This is in sharp contrast with the grafting of the corresponding alkylidyne complexes [M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] of d0 metals (M = Mo and W), which takes place via σ-bond metathesis without isomerization of the metal fragment (Scheme 21b). (67, 277, 278)
Scheme 20
Scheme 20. Formation of Alkylidene from Bis-alkyl Surface Species via: (a) Addition of an O−H on the Alkylidene Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, (b) σ-Bond Metathesis, (c) Addition of an O−H on a Nitrido Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, and (c) Formation of a Bis-alkyl Species Followed by α-H Abstraction
Scheme 21
Scheme 21. Grafting of (a) [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2] on SiO2-(700), Yielding [(≡SiO)Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2], and of (b) [M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] on Silica or Alumina, Yielding [(EO)M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] (M = Mo or W; R = tBu; and E = Si or Al of Silica or Alumina Surfaces)
Intramolecular C−H bond activation processes can also explain some deactivation processes of well-defined single-site supported catalysts. For instance, one deactivation pathway of supported alkene polymerization catalyst based on lanthanides and actinides probably is due to the activation of the allylic C−H bond in place of insertion of propene, thus yielding inactive π-allyl surface complexes (Scheme 22a). (66, 279, 280) More recently, it was shown that C−H bond activation could lead to the deactivation of silica supported alkene metathesis catalysts. (281) From kinetic and in situ spectroscopic studies in combination with calculations, it was shown that the well-defined silica supported Re-based alkene metathesis catalyst decomposed, leading to degrafting, and that this process is first order in ethene. The key step of this process probably involved the activation of the C−H bond in the β-position of the metallacyclobutane intermediates, a β-H transfer process (Scheme 22b). The resulting allyl hydride intermediate could then react with ethene to form a highly reactive species, which could either regenerate the catalyst via α-H abstraction between two adjacent alkyl ligands or degraft via abstraction of the β-H of the ethyl fragment by the siloxy ligand (β-H abstraction).
Scheme 22
Scheme 22. (a) Deactivation of Polymerization Catalysts by Formation of π-Allyl Species; (b) Deactivation of Alkene Metathesis Catalysts by Decomposition of Metallacyclobutane Intermediates (e.g. the Well-Defined Silica Supported Re Alkylidene Complex); and (c) H/D Exchange via Chain Walking
Additionally, β-H transfer can also lead to side reactions in hydrogenation with d0 metal-based supported (66, 242, 279, 280, 282, 283) and homogeneous catalysts. (284-286) In the latter case, it was shown that β-H transfer can become competitive with hydrogenolysis under low pressure of H2. This led to chain walking, as evidenced by the incorporation of deuterium at various positions of the alkyl chain when the reaction was performed with D2 in place of H2 (Scheme 22c).
Alkane Hydrogenolysis
The hydrogenolysis of alkanes and paraffins occurs catalytically at low temperatures on metal hydrides supported on various oxides, e.g. silica, silica−alumina, or alumina. In the case of group 4 metals and particularly Zr, based on selectivities at low conversions and the final product distribution (Table 2 and Scheme 23a, e.g. alkane = propane), the hydrogenolysis of alkanes has been proposed to take place with the following key steps: C−H bond activation of the alkane via σ-bond metathesis (vide supra), C−C bond activation via β-alkyl transfer, hydrogenolysis of the M−C bond, and hydrogenation of the alkene (composed of two elementary steps, insertion and hydrogenolysis, Scheme 23b). (229, 230, 232, 287-289) In order to account for the absence of alkenes and the relatively low reaction temperatures, an alternative pathway has been proposed from calculations based on the bis-hydride surface species, which avoids the high endothermic formation of alkene intermediates, a relatively thermodynamically disfavored process (Scheme 23c). (229, 230) It is clear, however, that β-alkyl transfer is the key C−C bond cleavage step, and this is further supported by the observed lack of hydrogenolysis activities toward ethane, for which the corresponding alkyl surface species (ethyl) does not possess a β−C-C bond. Moreover, cyclic alkanes having less than seven carbons (n < 1) do not undergo hydrogenolysis, which illustrates the requirement of a syn-coplanar arrangement of the M−C and C−C bonds in the β-alkyl transfer transition states (Scheme 23d). (290) Using other supports (silica−alumina (288) and alumina (291)) and group 4 metals (Ti (292) and Hf (293)) does not greatly affect the rate and the product distribution, which shows that β-alkyl transfer is a general C−C bond cleavage process for d0 group 4 metals.
Table 2. Hydrogenolysis of Alkanes Catalyzed by Zirconium Hydride Supported on Silica: Activity and Product Distribution
reactant activitya initial product selectivity final product selectivity
ethane 0    
propane 70 CH4 (50%) CH4 (50%)
    C2H6 (50%) C2H6 (50%)
2-methylpropane 70 CH4 (52%) CH4 (67%)
    C3H8 (47%)b C2H6 (33%)
butane 66 CH4 (23%) CH4 (60%)
    C2H6 (54%) C2H6 (40%)
    C3H8 (20%)  
2,2-dimethylpropane 66 CH4 (54%) CH4 (75%)
    C4H10 (40%)c C2H6 (25%)
2,2-dimethylbutane d other alkanes (90%) d
    neo-C5H12 (<0.2%)  
    iso-C5H12 (10%)  
    n-C5H12 (<0.2%)  
3-methylpentane 36 CH4 (23%) d
    C2H6 (32%)  
    n-C4H10 (27%)  
    i-C5H12 (3%)  
    n-C5H12 (12%)  
aActivity defined as the number of turnovers per hour at low conversions.
bEthane (1.5%).
cPropane (5%) and ethane (1%).
dNot determined.
Scheme 23
Scheme 23. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Zr−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Steps for Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) a Bis-hydrides (R = CH3 for Propane). (d) β-Alkyl Transfer for M-Cycloalkyl Intermediates
It is noteworthy that this reaction can be extended to very long chain alkanes (C36) and polymers, and in fact, supported Zr hydrides can readily polymerize ethene and then depolymerize the thus-formed polyethylene under H2. (232, 288) For the hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes, the observed selectivities (Table 2) showed that C−C bond cleavage is statistical and occurs at similar rates from primary or secondary alkyl Zr species; for example, the ratio of ethane/(propane + methane) ≈ 2 (Scheme 24a). On the other hand, it is disfavored from tertiary alkyl Zr species, as evidenced by the low selectivity in isopentane in the hydrogenolysis of 3-methylpentane (Table 2 and Scheme 24b). (255)
Scheme 24
Scheme 24. Possible Product Formation in the Hydrogenolysis of (a) Butane and (b) 3-Methylpentane
Hydrogenolysis of alkanes is also catalyzed at low temperatures by silica supported tantalum hydrides, but the observed selectivities at low conversions and the final product distribution are very different (Table 3 and Scheme 25a). Moreover, the possibility of catalyzing the hydrogenolysis of ethane clearly shows that β-alkyl transfer cannot be the key C−C bond cleavage step in this case. (294) Here, based on these observations and calculations, the C−C bond activation step is the α-alkyl transfer, (295) and the elementary steps of hydrogenolysis are as follows: C−H bond activation, probably on a TaV trishydride species, via σ-bond metathesis, C−C bond cleavage through α-alkyl transfer, and hydrogenolysis (Scheme 25b−c). (296)
Table 3. Hydrogenolysis of Alkanes Catalyzed by Tantalum Hydride Supported on Silica: Activity and Product Distribution
reactant activitya initial product selectivity final product selectivity
ethane 30 CH4 (100%) CH4 (100%)
propane 12 CH4 (55%) CH4 (100%)
    C2H6 (45%)  
2-methylpropane 24 CH4 (55%) CH4 (100%)
    C2H6 (10%)  
    C3H8 (35%)  
butane 18 CH4 (42%) CH4 (100%)
    C2H6 (38%)  
    C3H8 (20%)  
2,2-dimethylpropane 6 b CH4 (100%)
2,2-dimethylbutane c other alkanes (68%) c
    neo-C5H12 (31%)  
    iso-C5H12 (1%)  
    n-C5H12 (<0.2%)  
aActivity defined as the number of turnovers per hour at low conversions.
bNo selectivity at low conversion can be reported due to the competitive hydrogenolysis of 2-methylpropane.
cNot determine.
Scheme 25
Scheme 25. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Ta−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) Tris-hydride Active Sites (R = CH3 for Propane)
Moreover, various cyclic alkanes, methylcyclopentane, cyclohexane, and cycloheptane, with the exception of cyclopentane also undergo hydrogenolysis with this catalyst, albeit with much lower rates and number of turnovers. (238) Here cyclic alkanes yield lower cyclic homologues: conversion of cyclohexane into methylcyclopentane and cyclopentane, and that of cycloheptane into methylcyclohexane and cyclohexane. It has been proposed that the key step probably involved, after the formation of the cycloalkyl derivatives via C−H bond activation, a γ-H activation (Scheme 26). This yields a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps, e.g. hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement, to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. The low activity of the catalyst is probably due to the formation of cyclopentane, detected in all cases, which upon C−H bond activation evolved toward cyclopentadienyl surface species (vide supra, section ).
Scheme 26
Scheme 26. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Hydrogenolysis of Cyclic Alkanes with Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides: (A) Initial C−H Bond Activation and C−C Bond Cleavage and (B) Formation of Products
Alkane Metathesis
In 1997, Vidal et al. found that acyclic alkanes (CnH2n+2) are catalytically transformed into their lower and higher homologues (Cn−iH2(n−i)+2 and Cn+iH2(n+i)+2) in the absence of hydrogen by the silica supported tantalum hydrides (Scheme 27a−b). (297, 298) Detailed mechanistic studies using different types of Ta-based catalyst precursors (251, 252) and kinetic studies in flow reactors (299) showed that alkenes were primary products and that the key C−C bond cleavage and formation steps corresponded to those involved in alkene metathesis, i.e. [2 + 2]-cycloaddition and cycloreversion (vide supra). (300-303) Several mechanistic schemes are possible, involving either two sites or one site, and they involve well-known steps of molecular organometallic chemistry.
Scheme 27
Scheme 27. (a) General Equation for the Reaction of Alkane Metathesis; (b) Major Products in Alkane Metathesis; (c) Proposed Two-Site Mechanism for the Catalytic Metathesis of Alkanes (Only One of the Two Possible Metallacyclobutanes Is Represented); (d) Selected Catalyst Precursors (See Table 4 for Details)
First, the two-site mechanism is proposed to involve tantalum hydrides as key intermediates (Scheme 27c). After a first C−H bond activation to form H2 and Ta-alkyl surface species, one site generates an alkene via a β-H transfer, thus regenerating tantalum hydrides; the other site evolves toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via an α-H transfer. (304) The alkene, generated by the first site, then undergoes a homologation process on the second site, which leads to a different alkene and alkylidene species. Subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps provide a way to liberate the lower and higher alkane homologues. The selectivity in higher homologues, i.e. the presence of mainly n − 1 and n + 1 linear homologues, is fully consistent with the fact that alkene metathesis is the key homologation process and that 1-alkenes are mainly participating in the homologation process, (252, 298, 299) in contrast to the catalytic alkane metathesis processes based on mixtures of alkene metathesis and dehydrogenation/hydrogenation catalysts, where a broad distribution of lower and higher homologues are generated, as a result of the cross-metathesis of a broad range of alkene intermediates and, in particular, internal ones. (298, 305-309)
Second, the one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, which are formed in situ from either silica supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes (Scheme 28). (251, 252) In this case, the formation and the conversion of the alkene intermediates take place within the coordination sphere of the metal center, as shown previously for the formation of cross-metathesis products, resulting from the reaction of an alkane and a neopentyl neopentylidene surface complex (Scheme 19, R1 = R2 = CH2R).
Scheme 28
Scheme 28. Formation of Alkyl Alkylidene Intermediates from Tantalum Hydrides
Both mechanisms are based on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride as a key intermediate. Today, several catalysts have been developed on the basis of well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes (Table 4 and Scheme 27d):
Tantalum hydrides prepared on various oxide supports: silica−alumina, alumina, and tailored made supports (entries 1−4), (262, 310) but they display similar activities and selectivities with the original silica supported tantalum hydrides.
Tungsten hydrides supported on oxide supports (entries 5−7); (260-262) while the silica supported system is a poor catalyst because of the lack of stability of the tungsten hydrides, the silica−alumina and alumina supported tungsten hydrides are more stable and selective than the corresponding tantalum hydrides.
Well-defined silica supported metal alkyl alkylidene catalyst precursors; those based on Ta display similar selectivity to that of the parent tantalum hydrides but are slightly less productive (entries 8−10); (251, 252) those based on Mo imido complexes have similar activity to that of the parent silica supported tantalum hydrides but higher selectivities (entry 11). (253, 254) In the latter type of catalysts, it was clearly shown that both the alkylidene and the alkyl ligands were necessary to obtain catalytic activity in alkane metathesis, because the corresponding alkylidene amido complexes are inactive despite their much higher performances as alkene metathesis catalyst precursors (entry 12). (311, 312) Note that Re alkyl alkylidene complexes are also active (entry 13), (254) but with much lower performances, probably because of their higher instability. (281) Overall, detailed investigations on these types of catalysts are consistent with a one-site mechanism and show that deactivation of these systems is probably due to degrafting (vide infra, Section 3.1.3), (254) preventing regeneration under H2 as performed on the hydride based catalysts.
Well-defined alkyl alkylidyne surface complexes of W, which are highly active alkene metathesis catalysts, (278, 313, 314) can also be used as alkane metathesis catalyst precursors (entries 14−16). While the silica supported system is inactive, probably because of a fast decomposition, the silica−alumina and alumina supported systems display activities comparable to those of the corresponding tantalum alkyl alkylidene systems (entries 8−10) and a greater selectivity for n − 1 and n + 1 homologues (entries 6−7). Overall, the current best reported catalysts are based on alumina or silica−alumina supported tungsten hydrides.
Alkane metathesis can also be used to make highly branched alkanes. For instance, the alumina supported tungsten hydrides convert selectively and catalytically 2-methylpropane into 2,3-dimethylbutane (42%) and ethane (41%) (Scheme 29a). (315) Despite the transfer of two carbons in place of one, as usually observed previously, this selectively can be explained using the same mechanism and the same alkylidene hydride intermediates (Scheme 29b). Finally, it is also possible to carry out alkane cross-metathesis processes. For instance, ethane/toluene mixtures are catalytically converted into a mixture of ethylbenzene and xylenes by the silica supported tantalum hydride (Scheme 29c). (316) This shows that both Csp3 and Csp2 can be involved in the alkane metathesis process. Note that Csp2 functionalization probably involves a different type of mechanism; one possibility is the Csp2-H activation on alkylidene or alkylidyne intermediates followed by an α-alkyl migration and subsequent C−H bond activation and hydrogenolysis steps to form higher alkane homologues and regenerate the active species (vide infra, Section and Scheme 31c).
Table 4. Comparison of Catalyst Precursors in the Metathesis of Propane at 150 °C after 120 h
entry catalyst precursorsa TONb selectivities/%
C1 C2 C4c C5c C6
1 Ta−H/SiO2 60 10 46 37 7 traces
    (3.5)     (5.1) (2.2)  
2 Ta−H/SiO2−Al2O3 59 11.5 46.5 35.5 6.0 traces
    (4)     (4.1) (2.2)  
3 Ta−H/Al2O3 60 9.5 47.5 36.5 6.0 traces
    (2.5)     (8.6) (4.5)  
4 Ta−H/SiO2−Zr 100 10 46 37 7 traces
    (3)          
5 W−H/SiO2 8 5.5 56.0 32 6.5 traces
    (−)     (10.4) (3.6)  
6 W−H/SiO2−Al2O3 123 2.0 58.0 32.0 6.5 1.5
    (8.5)     (6.7) (3.7)  
7 W−H/Al2O3 121 2.5 57.5 33.0 6.5 1.5
    (8.5)     (7.8) (3.8)  
8 SiSOTa(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 35 13 47.5 32.5 6.0 1d
    (3)     (0.5) (1.4)  
9 SiAlOTa(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 33 10.5 47.0 35.0 6.5 1d
    (−)     (3.8) (2.3)  
10 AlSOTa(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 34 5.0 52.0 38.0 4.5 traces
    (−)     (7.0) (3.5)  
11 SiSOMo(≡NR)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) 55 <0.2 56.0 38.0 6.0 0.5
    (1.1)     (13) (7.4)  
12 SiSOMo(≡NR)(=CHtBu)(NR2) <1 − − − − −
                13 SiSORe(≡CR)(═CHtBu)(CH2tBu) 13 3.5 56.0 39 4.0 traces
    (0.3)     (3.1) (1.6)  
14 SiSOW(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 <1 − − − − −
                15 SiAlOW(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 29 1.5 61.5 29 7 1
    (0.7)     (7.5) (4.2)  
16 AlSOW(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 28 2.5 65.5 24 7 1
    (1.8)     (7.1) (3.3)  
17 (SiSO)2Zr(H)2 60 23 39 24 4.8 3.6e
          (0.5) (1)  
18 (SiSO)2Zr(CH2tBu)2 − 30.5 42.3 12.7 5.7 −
aThe names of the catalysts have been simplified as follows: M−H/oxide in entries 1−7 refers to oxide supported metal hydrides, and the chemical formula in entries 8−16 gives the structure of the surface complexes with SiS, SiAl, and AlS referring to the siloxy group of a silica surface, the siloxy group of a silica−alumina surface, and the Al group of an alumina surface, respectively.
bTONs are here defined as the number of equivalents of propane converted per total metal after 120 h. Values in parentheses correspond to initial rates in TON/h.
cFor butanes and pentanes, the two numbers correspond in order to the selectivities of n- and i-isomers.
dIn these cases, additional products, corresponding to cross-metathesis products, are obtained: 2,2-dimethylpropane (tBuCH2−H), 2,2-dimethylbutane (tBuCH2−CH3), and 2,2-dimethylpentane (tBuCH2−C2H5); no tBuCH2−C3H7 is detected (<0.1%); see Table 1.
eSelectivities in the sum of C6 to C10 compounds.
Scheme 29
Scheme 29. (a) Metathesis of 2-Methylpropane; (b) Key Carbon−Carbon Bond Forming Steps from the Metallocarbene Hydride Intermediates; (c) Cross-metathesis of Ethane and Toluene
Moreover, while silica or silica−alumina supported zirconium hydrides or alkyl do not display any catalytic activity in alkane metathesis under standard conditions (150 °C and ca. 1 bar), they catalytically convert propane into higher and lower homologues under supercritical conditions (Table 4, entries 17−18). (317) However, the product selectivity and distribution are very different from catalysts based on group 5 and 6 metals: formation of mainly branched products up to decanes with a relatively high selectivity in isobutane along with methane and ethane. Here it is proposed that propane homologation takes place on a bis-hydride surface species and involves the following elementary steps (Scheme 30): (1) formation of a bis-alkyl intermediate [Zr(n-Pr)2] via two σ-bond metathesis steps, (2) an homologation process yielding [Zr(C2H5)(i-Bu)] via successive β-alkyl transfer intramolecular H-transfer and insertion, and (3) regeneration of Zr(H)2 and formation of ethane and isobutane via hydrogenolysis (σ-bond metathesis of M-C by H2).
Scheme 30
Scheme 30. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Homologation of Alkanes by Oxide Supported Zirconium Hydrides
Catalytic Conversion of Methane
Alkane metathesis converts a given alkane into its lower and higher homologues, and in particular two ethane molecules into methane and propane. The reverse reaction implies a cross-metathesis reaction with methane and its incorporation into higher alkanes, e.g. methane and propane giving two ethane molecules. This reaction is slightly endothermic independently of temperature (ca. 10 kJ/mol), but using a large excess of methane, propane was catalytically and quantitatively converted into ethane (2 ethane molecules per converted propane) using the silica supported tantalum hydrides, probably via the same elementary steps of alkane metathesis (Scheme 31a). (318)
Scheme 31
Scheme 31. Catalytic Conversions of Methane via (a) Cross-metathesis with Propane, (b) Nonoxidative Coupling, (c) C−C Bond Formation in Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane, and (d) Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane and Benzene
With the same tantalum hydride catalyst, but in the absence of other alkanes, methane can also be catalytically converted into an equimolar mixture of ethane and H2, which corresponds to the reaction of nonoxidative coupling (Scheme 31b). (206) This reaction is however highly endothermic and leads to very low conversions (ca. 0.1 and 0.2 at 300 and 375 °C, respectively). A possible mechanism involved the C−H bond activation of methane (R = CH3 in Scheme 31c) on metal−methylidene or methylidyne intermediates; (263-265) this generates an alkyl alkylidene species, which can rearrange via α-alkyl transfer into a Ta-CH2R. The catalytic cycle is then close upon reaction with methane, which liberates RCH3 and regenerates Ta-CH3. In the presence of benzene, coupling also takes place but leads to the selective formation of toluene and H2 (Scheme 31d), and the mechanism can take place similarly to methane replacing R = CH3 by R = Ph in the catalytic cycle. (319)
Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
C−H bond activation of alkanes readily takes place on isolated metal centers bound to, or present on, oxide surfaces to form organometallic intermediates, and this corresponds to the key steps of numerous catalytic processes: H/D-exchange reactions, alkane hydrogenolysis and metathesis, alkane dehydrogenation, conversion of alkane into aromatics, as well as the cross-metathesis of methane and alkanes or nonoxidative coupling of methane.
First, C−H bond activation and the formation of M−alkyl species occur on M−O, M−H, and M−C bonds via σ-bond metathesis and on M−alkylidene and M−alkylidyne bonds via addition reactions, an elementary step whose transition state resembles that of a σ-bond metathesis. In contrast to molecular organometallic chemistry, C−H bond activation via oxidative addition is only rarely encountered for these systems, with one reason being that metal centers belong to main group and early transition metals, usually in their higher oxidation states. Systems based on late transition metals, e.g. group VIII, are mainly found as particles, which were not discussed here.
Second, intramolecular C−H bond activation is also important in many catalytic processes. First, it is one of the processes which allows the formation of surface alkylidene and alkylidyne intermediates via α-H abstraction on bis-alkyl or alkyl−alkylidene species, respectively. Second, related elementary steps such as β-H abstraction and β-H transfer are also important in deactivation (degrafting) and chain transfer (alkane homologation) processes, respectively. Finally, a specific case is β-H transfer, which is the key step of (i) a chain walking mechanism, an important reaction in hydrogenation, polymerization, alkane hydrogenolysis, and possibly alkane metathesis, and (ii) deactivation mechanisms of alkene and alkane metathesis catalysts. Additionally, one should note that, in contrast to molecular organometallic chemistry, C−C bond activation is often encountered in surface chemistry, including in catalytic processes (alkane hydrogenolysis and metathesis), and this is probably due to the possibility to explore the reactivity of these surface species at higher temperatures than those for the homologous molecular complexes because surfaces and, in particular, site isolation allow the access to highly reactive—yet stable—intermediates. (320) Nonetheless, these C−C bond activation processes take place via known elementary steps of molecular organometallic chemistry (and related to those of C−H bond activation), i.e. mainly via α- and β-alkyl transfer processes, with the corresponding reverse elementary steps allowing the formation of C−C bonds and chain growth. No intermolecular C−C bond activation has been observed so far on these systems. This again shows the difference between isolated sites in high oxidation states and metal ensembles present at the surface of metal particles.
Third, it is also noteworthy that the surface chemistry and particularly C−H bond activation processes are very similar for bulk oxides and M-exchange zeolites, and this is probably an evidence for common structural features of active sites for these systems. For instance, it is possible that the structures of the defect sites in oxides are closely related to those of the active site Al and M sites of H-zeolites and M-exchange zeolites, respectively. Given the diversity of zeolite structures, it should be possible to control the nature, the density, and the accessibility of those active sites and thereby to obtain single-site catalysts. Moreover, the C−H bond activation of alkanes on the reactive sites of oxides and zeolites, which are based on main group or group 10 metals (Al, Ga, and Zn), corresponds to a σ-bond metathesis, like for single-site catalysts based on early transition metals. The analogy between the reactivity of single-site catalysts, isolated ions in metal oxides and M-exchange zeolites, shows that research effort should also be directed in bridging the gap between these systems, for instance by designing well-defined active sites bound to or incorporated in the structure of zeolites as a way to generate robust single-site catalysts. (321-324)
In contrast, under oxidative conditions (molecular oxygen or N2O), the C−H bond activation processes are more complex; they typically involve a H-abstraction and radical-type mechanism. In fact, in some cases when high operating temperatures are used (above 500 °C), the uncatalyzed and unselective gas phase reactions can become dominant. Therefore, metal-alkyl species are often not key reaction intermediates, even if they can be detected in some cases, probably as dormant species. Yet, such radical processes can lead to highly selective transformation in specific cases, such as the oxidation of butane into maleic anhydride. However, such cases are limited to specific substrates, and these reactions lead to otherwise low yields (low selectivity at high conversions or high selectivity at low conversion).
Overall, the level of molecular understanding of “single-site” heterogeneous catalysts in terms of structure of the active sites and reaction mechanism is close to that obtained for homogeneous systems. The detailed description of these systems has in turn been used to develop rational approaches to improve catalysts (design) and to also discover novel alkane (including methane) homologation processes. There are however open questions regarding the so-called “single-site” catalysts: what is the effect of adjacent oxygen functionalities on structure and reactivity (local environment; are they truly “single-site”?), what is the stability of these systems (deactivation, regeneration, ...), can they be used in more complex reactions involving for instance molecular oxygen (vide infra)?
In contrast, obtaining a detailed mechanistic understanding for the activation of alkanes on metal oxides or zeolites has been difficult and still requires a large research effort, despite many recent advances. This is due in large part to the difficulty to attain a molecular understanding of the active sites. One approach to bridge the gap between “single-site” catalysts and these systems is to improve characterization techniques, (325-333) in particular by combining advanced spectroscopic and computational studies. This requires looking at the pristine material as well as the material under working conditions (operando techniques). The thus-obtained detailed understanding of active site structures can in turn assist with design of new materials, in particular highly crystalline materials with defined chemical structures, with a control of the density of so-called “defect sites”, with a defined location of sites inside the oxide matrices.... (334-337) In the case of oxidative reaction processes, extra difficulties can be pointed out: very complex reaction mechanisms involving multielectron oxidation processes and molecular oxygen as well as radical or radical-like intermediates, oxide-based catalysts involving complex compositions and active site structures.... Here, despite years of research and promising industrial processes, a better molecular understanding of active sites and reaction mechanisms is probably critical to expect major advances in catalyst design. Major breakthroughs could originate from a deeper understanding of C—H bond activation processes on M═O or M—O active sites with the aim to trigger C—H bond as well as O2 activation at lower temperatures on metal oxides or supported metal oxides. This would assist with the design of more selective metal-based catalysts and avoid the unselective gas phase reaction processes. This also calls for a better control of the formation of active species on oxide surfaces, and one possible approach is the controlled reaction of well-defined oxide precursors including polyoxometallates. (338-340)
This review also shows that the isolated metal centers of surfaces can display unusual reactivities when compared to molecular organometallic chemistry, even if they actually obey the same rules (elementary steps)! Their reactivity is by and large due to site isolation on surfaces, which can help stabilize reactive intermediates and which allow unusual structures, e.g. low coordination, as well as the use of higher temperatures. Looking more closely at these systems can probably provide new ideas in molecular chemistry in a similar way as Nature has inspired us to design homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts. (341-343)
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Christophe Coperet - Université de Lyon, Institut de Chimie de Lyon, C2P2, UMR 5265 (CNRS-CPE—Université Lyon 1), CPE Lyon F308, 43 Boulevard du 11 Novembre 1918, F-69616 Villeurbanne Cedex, France;  Email: coperet@cpe.fr
Biography
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Christophe Coperet
Christophe Copéret graduated from CPE Lyon in 1992 (Lyon, France) and obtained a PhD in chemistry in 1996 from Purdue University (West Lafayette, USA) under the guidance of Prof. E. Negishi. After a postdoctoral position in the group of Prof. K. B. Sharpless at the Scripps Research Institute, he accepted a CNRS position in 1998 in the Laboratoire de Chimie Organométallique de Surface, and he was promoted in 2008 as a CNRS research director. His research interests are at the frontier of organometallic and material chemistry, catalysis, solid state NMR spectroscopy and computational chemistry with the aim to design and develop - via a molecular approach - functional materials with applications in catalysis, bioimaging and microelectronics.
5 Acknowledgment
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
C.C. would like to thank CNRS, CPE Lyon, and Université Lyon 1 for continuous support. C.C. is grateful to numerous students and research colleagues, in particular J.-M. Basset, D. Soulivong, M. Taoufik, C. Thieuleux, and J. Thivolle-Cazat, with whom he has had discussions over the years in the area of alkane chemistry. Special thanks are directed toward Dr. E. Pidko and Prof. R. van Santen for providing references in press or prior to publication as well as for Figures 1 and 2.
6 References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 343 other publications.
1Crabtree, R. H. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 2001, 2437[Crossref], Google Scholar
2Arakawa, H., Aresta, M., Armor, J. N., Barteau, M. A., Beckman, E. J., Bell, A. T., Bercaw, J. E., Creutz, C., Dinjus, E., Dixon, D. A., Domen, K., DuBois, D. L., Eckert, J., Fujita, E., Gibson, D. H., Goddard, W. A., Goodman, D. W., Keller, J., Kubas, G. J., Kung, H. H., Lyons, J. E., Manzer, L. E., Marks, T. J., Morokuma, K., Nicholas, K. M., Periana, R., Que, L., Rostrup-Nielson, J., Sachtler, W. M. H., Schmidt, L. D., Sen, A., Somorjai, G. A., Stair, P. C., Stults, B. R., and Tumas, W. Chem. Rev. 2001, 101, 953[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
3Olah, G. A. and Molnar, A. Hydrocarbon Chemistry, 2nd ed.; Wiley Interscience: 2003.[Crossref], Google Scholar
4Arndtsen, B. A., Bergman, R. G., Mobley, T. A., and Peterson, T. H. Acc. Chem. Res. 1995, 28, 154[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
5Labinger, J. A. and Bercaw, J. E. Nature 2002, 417, 507[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
6Matsumoto, T., Taube, D. J., Periana, R. A., Taube, H., and Yoshida, H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 7414[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
7Kakiuchi, F. and Chatani, N. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
8Chen, H. Y., Schlecht, S., Semple, T. C., and Hartwig, J. F. Science 2000, 287, 1995[Crossref], Google Scholar
9Hartwig, J. F. Nature 2008, 455, 314[Crossref], Google Scholar
10Periana, R. A., Taube, D. J., Evitt, E. R., Loffler, D. G., Wentrcek, P. R., Voss, G., and Masuda, T. Science 1993, 259, 340[Crossref], Google Scholar
11Periana, R. A., Taube, D. J., Gamble, S., Taube, H., Satoh, T., and Fujii, H. Science 1998, 280, 560[Crossref], Google Scholar
12Bar-Nahum, I., Khenkin, A. M., and Neumann, R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 10236[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
13Sorokin, A. B., Kudrik, E. V., and Bouchu, D. Chem. Commun. 2008, 2562[Crossref], Google Scholar
14Cavani, F. and Trifiro, F. Catal. 1994, 11, 246[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
15Albonetti, S., Cavani, F., and Trifiro, F. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 1996, 38, 413[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
16Cavani, F. and Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 561[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
17Cavani, F. and Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1995, 24, 307[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
18Weckhuysen, B. M. and Schoonheydt, R. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 223[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
19Ono, Y. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 1992, 34, 179[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
20Biscardi, J. A. and Iglesia, E. Catal. Today 1996, 31, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
21Fricke, R., Kosslick, H., Lischke, G., and Richter, M. Chem. Rev. 2000, 100, 2303[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
22Hagen, A. and Roessner, F. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2000, 42, 403[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
23Caeiro, G., Carvalho, R. H., Wang, X., Lemos, M., Lemos, F., Guisnet, M., and Ribeiro, F. R. J. Mol. Catal. A 2006, 255, 131[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
24Bhan, A. and Delgass, W. N. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2008, 50, 19[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
25Corma, A. and Garcia, H. Chem. Rev. 2002, 102, 3837[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
26Corma, A. J. Catal. 2003, 216, 298[Crossref], Google Scholar
27Feller, A. and Lercher, J. A. Adv. Catal. 2004, 48, 229[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Gault, F. G. Adv. Catal. 1981, 30, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Garin, F. and Maire, G. Acc. Chem. Res. 1989, 22, 100[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
30Zaera, F., Gellman, A. J., and Somorjai, G. A. Acc. Chem. Res. 1986, 19, 24[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
31Zaera, F. Acc. Chem. Res. 1992, 25, 260[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
32Zaera, F. Chem. Rev. 1995, 95, 2651[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
33Zaera, F. Catal. Lett. 2003, 91, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
34Somorjai, G. A. and Park, J. Y. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 2155[Crossref], Google Scholar
35Norskov, J. K., Bligaard, T., Hvolbaek, B., Abild-Pedersen, F., Chorkendorff, I., and Christensen, C. H. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 2163[Crossref], Google Scholar
36Hargreaves, J. S. J., Hutchings, G. J., Joyner, R. W., and Taylor, S. H. Chem. Commun. 1996, 523[Crossref], Google Scholar
37Hargreaves, J. S. J., Hutchings, G. J., Joyner, R. W., and Taylor, S. H. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 227, 191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
38Harrison, D. L., Nicholls, D., and Steiner, H. J. Catal. 1967, 7, 359[Crossref], Google Scholar
39Chang, C. C. and Kokes, R. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1971, 93, 7107[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
40Chang, C. C., Dixon, L. T., and Kokes, R. J. J. Phys. Chem. 1973, 77, 2634[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
41Conner, W. C., Jr. and Kokes, R. J. J. Catal. 1975, 36, 199[Crossref], Google Scholar
42Dowden, D. A., Mackenzie, N., and Trapnell, B. M. W. Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A 1956, 237, 245[Crossref], Google Scholar
43Trokhimets, A. I. and Markevich, S. B. Zh. Fiz. Khim. 1964, 38, 1293[CAS], Google Scholar
44Larson, J. G. and Hall, W. K. J. Phys. Chem. 1965, 69, 3080[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
45McCosh, R. and Kemball, C. J. Chem. Soc. A 1968, 1555[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
46Flockhart, B. D., Uppal, S. S., and Pink, R. C. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1971, 67, 513[Crossref], Google Scholar
47Saunders, P. C. and Hightowe, J. w. J. Phys. Chem. 1970, 74, 4323[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
48Amenomiya, Y. J. Catal. 1971, 22, 109[Crossref], Google Scholar
49Robertson, P. J., Scurrell, M. S., and Kemball, C. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1975, 71, 903[Crossref], Google Scholar
50Scurrell, M. S. and Kemball, C. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1 1976, 72, 818[Crossref], Google Scholar
51Lunsford, J. H., Zingery, L. W., and Rosynek, M. P. J. Catal. 1975, 38, 179[Crossref], Google Scholar
52Utiyama, M., Hattori, H., and Tanabe, K. J. Catal. 1978, 53, 237[Crossref], Google Scholar
53Baumgarten, E. and Zachos, A. J. Catal. 1981, 69, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
54Utiyama, M., Hattori, H., and Tanabe, K. Bull. Soc. Chem. Jpn. 1981, 54, 2521[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
55Quanzhi, L. I. and Amenomiya, Y. Appl. Catal. 1986, 23, 173[Crossref], Google Scholar
56Capitan, M. J., Odriozola, J. A., Marquez, A., and Sanz, J. F. J. Catal. 1995, 156, 273[Crossref], Google Scholar
57Farcasiu, D. and Lukinskas, P. Chem. Commun. 2001, 77[Crossref], Google Scholar
58Farcasiu, D. and Lukinskas, P. J. Phys. Chem. A 2002, 106, 1619[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
59Engelhardt, J. and Valyon, J. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2001, 74, 217[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Joubert, J., Salameh, A., Krakoviack, V., Delbecq, F., Sautet, P., Copéret, C., and Basset, J. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 23944[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
Joubert, J., Delbecq, F., and Sautet, P. J. Catal. 2007, 251, 507[Crossref], Google Scholar
61Haller, L. J. L., Page, M. J., Macgregor, S. A., Mahon, M. F., and Whittlesey, M. K. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 4604[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
Boutadla, Y., Davies, D. L., Macgregor, S. A., and Poblador-Bahamonde, A. I. Dalton Trans. 2009, 5820[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
62Cai, S., Chihaia, V., and Sohlberg, K. J. Mol. Catal. A 2007, 275, 63[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
63Valyon, J., Engelhardt, J., Kallo, D., and Hegedus, M. Catal. Lett. 2002, 82, 29[Crossref], Google Scholar
64Ballard, D. G. H. J. Polym. Sci., Part A 1975, 13, 2191[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
65Burwell, R. L., Jr. J. Catal. 1984, 86, 301[Crossref], Google Scholar
66Marks, T. J. Acc. Chem. Res. 1992, 25, 57[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
67Joubert, J., Delbecq, F., Sautet, P., Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Thieuleux, C., Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 9157[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
68Salameh, A., Joubert, J., Baudouin, A., Lukens, W., Delbecq, F., Sautet, P., Basset, J. M., and Copéret, C. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 3870[Crossref], Google Scholar
69Salameh, A., Baudouin, A., Soulivong, D., Boehm, V., Roeper, M., Basset, J.-M., and Copéret, C. J. Catal. 2008, 253, 180[Crossref], Google Scholar
70Salameh, A., Baudouin, A., Basset, J.-M., and Coperet, C. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 2117[Crossref], Google Scholar
71Herrmann, W. A., Wagner, W., Flessner, U. N., Vokhardt, U., and Komber, H. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1991, 30, 1636[Crossref], Google Scholar
72Rost, A. M. J., Schneider, H., Zoller, J. P., Herrmann, W. A., and Kuehn, F. E. J. Organomet. Chem. 2005, 690, 4712[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
73Buffon, R., Choplin, A., Leconte, M., Basset, J. M., Touroude, R., and Herrmann, W. A. J. Mol. Catal. 1992, 72, L7[Crossref], Google Scholar
74Malek, A. and Ozin, G. Adv. Mater. 1995, 7, 160[Crossref], Google Scholar
75He, M. Y., Burwell, R. L., and Marks, T. J. Organometallics 1983, 2, 566[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
76He, M. Y., Xiong, G. X., Toscano, P. J., Burwell, R. L., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 641[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
77Gnep, N. S., Doyemet, J. Y., Seco, A. M., Ribeiro, F. R., and Guisnet, M. Appl. Catal. 1988, 43, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
78Meriaudeau, P. and Naccache, C. J. Mol. Catal. 1990, 59, L31[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
79Sulikowski, B., Olejniczak, Z., and Corberan, V. C. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 10323[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
80Nakagawa, K., Okamura, M., Ikenaga, N., Suzuki, T., and Kobayashi, T. Chem. Commun. 1998, 1025[Crossref], Google Scholar
81Nakagawa, K., Kajita, C., Ide, Y., Okamura, M., Kato, S., Kasuya, H., Ikenaga, N., Kobayashi, T., and Suzuki, T. Catal. Lett. 2000, 64, 215[Crossref], Google Scholar
82Michorczyk, P. and Ogonowski, J. React. Kinet. Catat. Lett. 2003, 78, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
83Chen, M., Xu, J., Su, F. Z., Liu, Y. M., Cao, Y., He, H. Y., and Fan, K. N. J .Catal. 2008, 256, 293[Crossref], Google Scholar
84Michorczyk, P. and Ogonowski, J. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 251, 425[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
85Michorczyk, P., Gora-Marek, K., and Ogonowski, J. Catal. Lett. 2006, 109, 195[Crossref], Google Scholar
86Liu, Y., Li, Z. H., Lu, J., and Fan, K. N. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 20382[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
87Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., Pronin, A. A., Schlögl, R., and Jentoft, F. C. J. Phys. Chem. B 1996, 110, 7975[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
88Nakagawa, K., Kajita, C., Okumura, K., Ikenaga, N., Nishitani-Gamo, M., Ando, T., Kobayashi, T., and Suzuki, T. J. Catal. 2001, 203, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
89Xu, B. J., Zheng, B., Hua, W. M., Yue, Y. H., and Gao, Z. J. Catal. 2006, 239, 470[Crossref], Google Scholar
90Centi, G., Trifiro, F., Ebner, J. R., and Franchetti, V. M. Chem. Rev. 1988, 88, 55[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
91Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1998, 41, 21[Crossref], Google Scholar
92Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Today 1999, 49, 141[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
93Punniyamurthy, T., Velusamy, S., and Iqbal, J. Chem. Rev. 2005, 105, 2329[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
94Vedrine, J. C., Millet, J. M. M., and Volta, J.-C. Catal. Today 1996, 32, 115[Crossref], Google Scholar
95Busca, G., Centi, G., and Trifiro, F. Appl. Catal. 1986, 25, 265[Crossref], Google Scholar
96Busca, G., Cavani, F., Centi, G., and Trifiro, F. J. Catal. 1986, 99, 400[Crossref], Google Scholar
97Agaskar, P. A., Decaul, L., and Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Lett. 1994, 23, 339[Crossref], Google Scholar
98Kung, H. H. Adv. Catal. 1994, 40, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
99Millet, J. M. M., Loukah, M., Rouzies, D., Volta, J. C., and Vedrine, J. C. Colloq. Fr.—Maghrebin Catal. 1993, 2, 1[CAS], Google Scholar
100Millet, J.-M. M. Top. Catal. 2006, 38, 83[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
101Mamedov, E. A. and Corberan, V. C. Appl. Catal., A 1995, 127, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
102Grabowski, R. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2006, 48, 199[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
103Rulkens, R. and Tilley, T. D. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 9959[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
104Rulkens, R., Male, J. L., Terry, K. W., Olthof, B., Khodakov, A., Bell, A. T., Iglesia, E., and Tilley, T. D. Chem. Mater. 1999, 11, 2966[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
105Fujdala, K. L. and Tilley, T. D. J. Catal. 2003, 218, 123[Crossref], Google Scholar
106Vedrine, J. C., Coudurier, G., and Millet, J.-M. M. Catal. Today 1997, 33, 3[Crossref], Google Scholar
107C&E News1995, Vol 13 (May).
108Centi, G., Grasselli, R. K., and Trifiro, F. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 661[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
109Grasselli, R. K. Top. Catal. 2001, 79Google Scholar
110Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Today 2000, 55, 311[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
111Centi, G., Perathoner, S., and Trifiro, F. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 143[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
112Holmberg, J., Hansen, S., Grasselli, R. K., and Andersson, A. Top. Catal. 2006, 38, 17[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
113Grasselli, R. K., Buttrey, D. J., Burrington, J. D., Andersson, A., Holmberg, J., Ueda, W., Kubo, J., Lugmair, C. G., and Volpe, A. F. Top. Catal. 2006, 38, 7[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
114Bettahar, M. M., Costentin, G., Savary, L., and Lavalley, J. C. Appl. Catal., A 1996, 145, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
115Lin, M. M. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 207, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
116Ito, T., Wang, J. X., Lin, C. H., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 5062[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
117Ito, T. and Lunsford, J. H. Nature 1985, 314, 721[Crossref], Google Scholar
118Lunsford, J. H. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 81, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
119Lunsford, J. H. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1995, 34, 970[Crossref], Google Scholar
120Sokolovskii, V. D. and Mamedov, E. A. Catal. Today 1992, 14, 331[Crossref], Google Scholar
121Driscoll, D. J., Martir, W., Wang, J. X., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 58[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
122Driscoll, D. J., Campbell, K. D., and Lunsford, J. H. Adv. Catal. 1987, 35, 139[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
123Campbell, K. D., Morales, E., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987, 109, 7900[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
124Labinger, J. A. Catal. Lett. 1988, 1, 371– 5[Crossref], Google Scholar
125Podkolzin, S. G., Stangland, E. E., Jones, M. E., Peringer, E., and Lercher, J. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 2569[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
126Van der Heijden, A., Podkolzin, S. G., Jones, M. E., Bitter, J. H., and Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 5002[Crossref], Google Scholar
127Weckhuysen, B. M., Wachs, I. E., and Schoonheydt, R. A. Chem. Rev. 1996, 96, 3327[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
128Deo, G., Wachs, I. E., and Haber, J. Crit. Rev. Surf. Sci. 1994, 4, 141[CAS], Google Scholar
129Banares, M. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 319[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
130Madeira, L. M. and Portela, M. F. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2002, 44, 247[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
131Cavani, F., Ballarini, N., and Cericola, A. Catal. Today 2007, 127, 113[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
132Blasco, T. and Nieto, J. M. L. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 117[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
133Wachs, I. E. and Weckhuysen, B. M. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 67[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
134Nowak, I. and Ziolek, M. Chem. Rev. 1999, 99, 3603[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
135Macht, J. and Iglesia, E. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2008, 10, 5331[Crossref], Google Scholar
136Weckhuysen, B. M., Bensalem, A., and Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1998, 94, 2011[Crossref], Google Scholar
137Weckhuysen, B. M., Verberckmoes, A. A., Debaere, J., Ooms, K., Langhans, I., and Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Mol. Catal. A 2000, 151, 115[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
138Lillehaug, S., Borve, K. J., Sierka, M., and Sauer, J. A. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2004, 17, 990[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
139Lillehaug, S., Jensen, V. R., and Borve, K. J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2006, 19, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
140Takahara, I. and Saito, M. Chem. Lett. 1996, 973[Crossref], Google Scholar
141Michorczyk, P. and Ogonowski, J. React. Kinet. Catat. Lett. 2005, 87, 177[Crossref], Google Scholar
142Stern, D. L. and Grasselli, R. K. J. Catal. 1997, 167, 550[Crossref], Google Scholar
143Xie, S. B., Chen, K. D., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 10059[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
144Chen, K. D., Iglesia, E., and Bell, A. T. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 646[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
145Khan, M. M. and Somorjai, G. A. J. Catal. 1985, 91, 263[Crossref], Google Scholar
146Zhen, K. J., Khan, M. M., Mak, C. H., Lewis, K. B., and Somorjai, G. A. J. Catal. 1985, 94, 501[Crossref], Google Scholar
147Spencer, N. D. and Pereira, C. J. J. Catal. 1989, 116, 399[Crossref], Google Scholar
148Liu, R. S., Iwamoto, M., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1982, 78[Crossref], Google Scholar
149Liu, H. F., Liu, R. S., Liew, K. Y., Johnson, R. E., and Lunsford, J. H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1984, 106, 4117[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
150Smith, M. R. and Ozkan, U. S. J. Catal. 1993, 142, 226[Crossref], Google Scholar
151de Lucas, A., Valverde, J. L., Canizares, P., and Rodriguez, L. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 184, 143[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
152Kobayashi, T., Nakagawa, K., Tabata, K., and Haruta, M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1994, 1609[Crossref], Google Scholar
153Arena, F., Gatti, G., Martra, G., Coluccia, S., Stievano, L., Spadaro, L., Famulari, P., and Parmaliana, A. J. Catal. 2005, 231, 365[Crossref], Google Scholar
154Wang, Y., Yang, W., Yang, L., Wang, X., and Zhang, Q. Catal. Today 2006, 117, 156[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
155Parmaliana, A., Arena, F., Sokolovskii, V., Frusteri, F., and Giordano, N. Catal. Today 1996, 28, 363[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
156Chen, K. D., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 1292[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
157Fu, G., Xu, X., Lu, X., and Wan, H. L. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 6416[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
158Fu, G., Xu, X., Lu, X., and Wan, H. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 3989[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
159Fu, G., Xu, X., and Wan, H. L. Catal. Today 2006, 117, 133[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
160Fu, G., Chen, Z. N., Xu, X., and Wan, H. L. J. Phys. Chem. A 2008, 112, 717[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
161Khodakov, A., Olthof, B., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 1999, 181, 205[Crossref], Google Scholar
162Argyle, M. D., Chen, K. D., Bell, A. T., and Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 2002, 208, 139[Crossref], Google Scholar
163Steinfeldt, N., Muller, D., and Berndt, H. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 272, 201[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
164Blasco, T., Galli, A., Nieto, J. M. L., and Trifiro, F. J. Catal. 1997, 169, 203[Crossref], Google Scholar
165Mars, P. and van Krevelen, D. W. Chem. Eng. Sci. 1954, 3, 41[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
166Rozanska, X., Fortrie, R., and Sauer, J. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 6041[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
167Redfern, P. C., Zapol, P., Sternberg, M., Adiga, S. P., Zygmunt, S. A., and Curtiss, L. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 8363[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
168Fu, H., Liu, Z.-P., Li, Z.-H., Wang, W.-N., and Fan, K.-N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 11114[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
169Ohler, N. and Bell, A. T. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 2700[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
170Xu, Y. D. and Lin, L. W. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 188, 53[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
171Lunsford, J. H. Catal. Today 2000, 63, 165[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
172Choudhary, T. V., Aksoylu, E., and Goodman, D. W. Catal. Rev. 2003, 45, 151[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
173Luzgin, M. V., Rogov, V. A., Arzumanov, S. S., Toktarev, A. V., Stepanov, A. G., and Parmon, V. N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 4559[Crossref], Google Scholar
174Choudhary, V. R., Kinage, A. K., and Choudhary, T. V. Science 1997, 275, 1286[Crossref], Google Scholar
175Wang, L. S., Tao, L. X., Xie, M. S., Xu, G. F., Huang, J. S., and Xu, Y. D. Catal. Lett. 1993, 21, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
176Shu, Y. Y. and Ichikawa, M. Catal. Today 2001, 71, 55[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
177http://www.iza-structure.org/databases/.
178Kazansky, V. B., Serykh, A. I., Anderson, B. G., and van Santen, R. A. Catal. Lett. 2003, 88, 211[Crossref], Google Scholar
179Kazansky, V. B. and Serykh, A. I. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2004, 6, 3760[Crossref], Google Scholar
180Rane, N., Overweg, A. R., Kazansky, V. B., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. J. Catal. 2006, 239, 478[Crossref], Google Scholar
181Pidko, E. A., Kazansky, V. B., Hensen, E. J. M., and van Santen, R. A. J. Catal. 2006, 240, 73[Crossref], Google Scholar
182Dooley, K. M., Chang, C. C., and Price, G. L. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 84, 17[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
183Hamid, S. B. A., Derouane, E. G., Meriaudeau, P., and Naccache, C. Catal. Today 1996, 31, 327[Crossref], Google Scholar
184Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. J. Catal. 2005, 233, 351[Crossref], Google Scholar
185Hensen, E. J. M., Pidko, E. A., Rane, N., and van Santen, R. A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 7273[Crossref], Google Scholar
186Pidko, E. A., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 2893[Crossref], Google Scholar
187Pidko, E. A. and van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 4246[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
188Pidko, E. A., Hensen, E. J. M., and van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 13068[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
189Mole, T., Anderson, J. R., and Creer, G. Appl. Catal. 1985, 17, 141[Crossref], Google Scholar
190Scurrell, M. S. Appl. Catal. 1988, 41, 89[Crossref], Google Scholar
191El-Malki, E. M., van Santen, R. A., and Sachtler, W. M. H. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 4611[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
192Barbosa, L., Zhidomirov, G. M., and van Santen, R. A. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 3909[Crossref], Google Scholar
193Frash, M. V. and van Santen, R. A. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 1085[Crossref], Google Scholar
194Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. J. Catal. 2004, 227, 263[Crossref], Google Scholar
195Kazansky, V. B., Serykh, A. I., and Pidko, E. A. J. Catal. 2004, 225, 369[Crossref], Google Scholar
196Kazansky, V. B. and Pidko, E. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2103[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
197Pidko, E. A. and van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 2643[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
198Kazansky, V. B., Subbotina, I. R., Rane, N., van Santen, R. A., and Hensen, E. J. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 3088[Crossref], Google Scholar
199Kolyagin, Y. G., Ordomsky, V. V., Khimyak, Y. Z., Rebrov, A. I., Fajula, F., and Ivanova, I. I. J. Catal. 2006, 238, 122[Crossref], Google Scholar
200Stepanov, A. G., Arzumanov, S. S., Parmon, V. N., Kolyagin, Y. G., Ivanova, I. I., and Freude, D. Catal. Lett. 2007, 114, 85[Crossref], Google Scholar
201Stepanov, A. G., Arzumanov, S. S., Gabrienko, A. A., Toktarev, A. V., Parmon, V. N., and Freude, D. J. Catal. 2008, 253, 11[Crossref], Google Scholar
202Stepanov, A. G., Arzumanov, S. S., Gabrienko, A. A., Parmon, V. N., Ivanova, I. I., and Freude, D. ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 2559[Crossref], Google Scholar
203Pierella, L. B., Wang, L. S., and Anunziata, O. A. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1997, 60, 101[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
204Wang, D. J., Lunsford, J. H., and Rosynek, M. P. J. Catal. 1997, 169, 347[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
205Schuurman, Y. and Mirodatos, C. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 151, 305[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
206Soulivong, D., Norsic, S., Taoufik, M., Coperet, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Chakka, S., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 5044[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
207Kazansky, V. B. and Pidko, E. A. Catal. Today 2005, 110, 281[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
208Pidko, E. and Kazansky, V. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 1939[Crossref], Google Scholar
209de Lucas, A., Valverde, J. L., Canizares, P., and Rodriguez, L. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 172, 165[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
210de Lucas, A., Valverde, J. L., Rodriguez, L., Sanchez, P., and Garcia, M. T. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 203, 81[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
211Antinolo, A., Canizares, P., Carrillo-Hermosilla, F., Fernandez-Baeza, J., Funez, F. J., de Lucas, A., Otero, A., Rodriguez, L., and Valverde, J. L. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 193, 139[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
212Michalkiewicz, B. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 277, 147[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
213Panov, G. I., Kharitonov, A. S., and Sobolev, V. I. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 98, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
214Panov, G. I., Uriarte, A. K., Rodkin, M. A., and Sobolev, V. I. Catal. Today 1998, 41, 365[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
215Parmon, V. N., Panov, G. I., Uriarte, A., and Noskov, A. S. Catal. Today 2005, 100, 115[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
216Dubkov, K. A., Sobolev, V. I., and Panov, G. I. Kinet. Catal. 1998, 39, 72[CAS], Google Scholar
217Copéret, C., Chabanas, M., Petroff Saint-Arroman, R., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2003, 42, 156[Crossref], Google Scholar
218Zakharov, V. A., Dudchenko, V. K., Paukstis, E., Karakchiev, L. G., and Ermakov, Y. I. J. Mol. Catal. 1977, 2, 421[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
219Yermakov, Y. I., Ryndin, Y. A., Alekseev, O. S., Kochubei, D. I., Shmachkov, V. A., and Gergert, N. I. J. Mol. Catal. 1989, 49, 121[Crossref], Google Scholar
220Schwartz, J. and Ward, M. D. J. Mol. Catal. 1980, 8, 465[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
221King, S. A. and Schwartz, J. Inorg. Chem. 1991, 30, 3771[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
222Corker, J., Lefebvre, F., Lecuyer, C., Dufaud, V., Quignard, F., Choplin, A., Evans, J., and Basset, J.-M. Science 1996, 271, 966[Crossref], Google Scholar
223Quignard, F., Choplin, A., and Basset, J. M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1991, 1589[Crossref], Google Scholar
224Watson, P. L. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1983, 276[Crossref], Google Scholar
225Niccolai, G. P. and Basset, J.-M. Appl. Catal., A 1996, 146, 145[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
226Steigerwald, M. L. and Goddard, W. A., III J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1984, 106, 308[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
227Maron, L., Perrin, L., and Eisenstein, O. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 2002, 534[Crossref], Google Scholar
228Copéret, C., Grouiller, A., Basset, M., and Chermette, H. ChemPhysChem 2003, 4, 608[Crossref], Google Scholar
229Besedin, D. V., Ustynyuk, L. Y., Ustynyuk, Y. A., and Lunin, V. V. Mendeleev Commun. 2002, 173[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
230Besedin, D. V., Ustynyuk, L. Y., Ustynyuk, Y. A., and Lunin, V. V. Top. Catal. 2005, 32, 47[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
231Rataboul, F., Baudouin, A., Thieuleux, C., Veyre, L., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., and Emsley, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 12541[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
232Thieuleux, C., Copéret, C., Dufaud, V., Marangelli, C., Kuntz, E., and Basset, J. M. J. Mol. Catal. A 2004, 213, 47[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
233Casty, G. L., Matturro, M. G., Myers, G. R., Reynolds, R. P., and Hall, R. B. Organometallics 2001, 20, 2246[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
234Soignier, S., Taoufik, M., Le Roux, E., Saggio, G., Dablemont, C., Baudouin, A., Lefebvre, F., De Mallmann, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Sunley, G., and Maunders, B. M. Organometallics 2006, 25, 1569[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
235Vidal, V., Theolier, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 991[Crossref], Google Scholar
236Vidal, V., Theolier, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., and Corker, J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 4595[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
237Lefort, L., Copéret, C., Taoufik, M., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Chem. Commun. 2000, 663[Crossref], Google Scholar
238Rataboul, F., Chabanas, M., De Mallmann, A., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Eur. J. Chem. 2003, 9, 1426[Crossref], [PubMed], Google Scholar
239Baudry, D., Ephritikhine, M., and Felkin, H. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1982, 606[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
240Baudry, D., Ephritikhine, M., Felkin, H., and Holmes-Smith, R. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1983, 788[Crossref], Google Scholar
241Mikhailov, M. N., Bagatur yants, A. A., and Kustov, L. M. Russ. Chem. Bull. 2003, 52, 30[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
242Eisen, M. S. and Marks, T. J. J. Mol. Catal. 1994, 86, 23[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
243Watson, P. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1983, 105, 6491[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
244Thompson, M. E., Baxter, S. M., Bulls, A. R., Burger, B. J., Nolan, M. C., Santarsiero, B. D., Schaefer, W. P., and Bercaw, J. E. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987, 109, 203[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
245Meyer, T. Y., Woerpel, K. A., Novak, B. M., and Bergman, R. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 10290[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
246Copéret, C., Rendón, N., and Blanc, F. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2009, 253Google Scholar
247van der Heijden, H. and Hessen, B. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1995, 145[Crossref], Google Scholar
248Basuli, F., Bailey, B. C., Huffman, J. C., and Mindiola, D. J. Organometallics 2005, 24, 3321[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
249Basuli, F., Bailey, B. C., Watson, L. A., Tomaszewski, J., Huffman, J. C., and Mindiola, D. J. Organometallics 2006, 25, 6170[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
250Mindiola, D. J. Acc. Chem. Res. 2006, 39, 813[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
251Copéret, C., Maury, O., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2001, 40, 2331[Crossref], Google Scholar
252Le Roux, E., Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., de Mallmann, A., Copéret, C., Quadrelli, E. A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lukens, W., Lesage, A., Emsley, L., and Sunley, G. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 13391[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
253Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 6201[Crossref], Google Scholar
254Blanc, F., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J. M., and Coperet, C. Chem.—Eur. J. 2008, 14, 9030[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
255Copéret, C.Unpublished results.Google Scholar
256Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 2062[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
257Chabanas, M., Copéret, C., and Basset, J.-M. Chem.—Eur. J. 2003, 9, 971[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
258Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., Emsley, L., Sinha, A., and Schrock, R. R. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 1216[Crossref], Google Scholar
259Rhers, B., Salameh, A., Baudouin, A., Quadrelli, E. A., Taoufik, M., Copéret, C., Lefebvre, F., Basset, J.-M., Solans-Monfort, X., Eisenstein, O., Lukens, W. W., Lopez, L. P. H., Sinha, A., and Schrock, R. R. Organometallics 2006, 25, 3554[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
260Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Copéret, C., de Mallmann, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B. M., and Sunley, G. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 6755[Crossref], Google Scholar
261Taoufik, M., Le Roux, E., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Copéret, C., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B., and Sunley, G. J. Top. Catal. 2006, 40, 65[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
262Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B. M., and Sunley, G. J. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2007, 349, 231[Crossref], Google Scholar
263Bailey, B. C., Tout, A. R., Fan, H., Tomaszewski, J., Huffman, J. C., and Mindiola, D. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 8246[Crossref], Google Scholar
264Bailey, B. C., Fan, H. J., Huffman, J. C., Baik, M. H., and Mindiola, D. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 8781[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
265Fout, A. R., Scott, J., Miller, D. L., Bailey, B. C., Pink, M., and Mindiola, D. J. Organometallics 2009, 28, 331[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
266Schrock, R. R. Acc. Chem. Res. 1979, 12, 98[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
267Dufaud, V., Niccolai, G. P., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1995, 117, 4288[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
268Chabanas, M., Quadrelli, E. A., Fenet, B., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., and Emsley, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2001, 40, 4493[Crossref], Google Scholar
269Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Basset, J.-M., Lukens, W., Lesage, A., Hediger, S., and Emsley, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 492[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
270Blanc, F., Salameh, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Sinha, A., and Schrock, R. R. C. R. Chim. 2008, 11, 137[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
271Herrmann, W. A., Stumpt, A. W., Priermeier, T., Bogdanovic, S., Dufaud, V., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1997, 35, 2803[Crossref], Google Scholar
272Blanc, F., Chabanas, M., Copéret, C., Fenet, B., and Herdweck, E. J. Organomet. Chem. 2005, 690, 5014[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
273Ajjou, J. A. N., Rice, G. L., and Scott, S. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 13436[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
274Ajjou, J. A. N., Scott, S. L., and Paquet, V. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 415[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
275Beaudoin, M. C., Womiloju, O., Fu, A. Q., Ajjou, J. A. N., Rice, G. L., and Scott, S. L. J. Mol. Catal. A 2002, 190, 159[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
276Berthoud, R., Rendon, N., Blanc, F., Solans-Monfort, X., Coperet, C., and Eisenstein, O. Dalton Trans. 2009, 5879[Crossref], Google Scholar
277Petroff Saint-Arroman, R., Chabanas, M., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., and Emsley, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 3820[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
278Le Roux, E., Taoufik, M., Chabanas, M., Alcor, D., Baudouin, A., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Lesage, A., Hediger, S., and Emsley, L. Organometallics 2005, 24, 4274[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
279Finch, W. C., Gillespie, R. D., Hedden, D., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1990, 112, 6221[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
280Gillespie, R. D., Burwell, R. L., Jr., and Marks, T. J. Langmuir 1990, 6, 1465[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
281Leduc, A.-M., Salameh, A., Soulivong, D., Chabanas, M., Basset, J.-M., Coperet, C., Solans-Monfort, X., Clot, E., Eisenstein, O., Boehm, V. P. W., and Roeper, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 6288[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
282Toscano, P. J. and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 653[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
283Eisen, M. S. and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1992, 114, 10358[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
284Jeske, G., Lauke, H., Mauermann, H., Schumann, H., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 8111[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
285Jeske, G., Lauke, H., Mauermann, H., Swepston, P. N., Schumann, H., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 8091[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
286Jeske, G., Schock, L. E., Swepston, P. N., Schumann, H., and Marks, T. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 8103[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
287Lécuyer, C., Quignard, F., Choplin, A., Olivier, D., and Basset, J. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1991, 30, 1660[Crossref], Google Scholar
288Dufaud, V. and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1998, 37, 806[Crossref], Google Scholar
289Mortensen, J. J. and Parrinello, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 2901[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
290Niccolai, G. P. and Basset, J.-M. NATO ASI Ser. 1998, 44, 111[CAS], Google Scholar
291Joubert, J., Delbecq, F., Thieuleux, C., Taoufik, M., Blanc, F., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., and Sautet, P. Organometallics 2007, 26, 3329[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
292Rosier, C., Niccolai, G. P., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 12408[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
293d’ Ornelas, L., Reyes, S., Quignard, F., Choplin, A., and Basset, J. M. Chem. Lett. 1993, 193, 1Google Scholar
294Chabanas, M., Vidal, V., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2000, 39, 1962[Crossref], Google Scholar
295Sharp, P. R. and Schrock, R. R. J. Organomet. Chem. 1979, 171, 43[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
296Mikhailov, M. N. and Kustov, L. M. Russ. Chem. Bull. 2005, 54, 300[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
297Vidal, V., Theolier, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Science 1997, 276, 99[Crossref], Google Scholar
298Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Soulivong, D., Taoufik, M., and Thivolle-Cazat, J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 6082[Crossref], Google Scholar
299Basset, J., Copéret, C., Lefort, L., Maunders, B., Maury, O., Le Roux, E., Saggio, G., Soignier, S., Soulivong, D., Sunley, G., Taoufik, M., and Thivolle-Cazat, J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 8604[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
300Herisson, J. L. and Chauvin, Y. Makromol. Chem. 1971, 141, 161[Crossref], Google Scholar
301Solans-Monfort, X., Clot, E., Copéret, C., and Eisenstein, O. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 14015[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
302Poater, A., Solans-Monfort, X., Clot, E., Copéret, C., and Eisenstein, O. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 8207[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
303Schinzel, S., Chermette, H., Coperet, C., and Basset, J.-M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 7984[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
304Parkin, G., Bunel, E., Burger, B. J., Trimmer, M. S., Van Asselt, A., and Bercaw, J. E. J. Mol. Catal. 1987, 41, 21[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
305Heckelsberg, L. F. and Banks, R. L.(Phillips Petroleum Co.). US3445541, 1969.Google Scholar
306Hughes, T. R., Burnett, R. L., and Wall, R. G. Catal., Proc. Int. Congr., 5th 1973, 2, 1217[CAS], Google Scholar
307Burnett, R. L. and Hughes, T. R. J. Catal. 1973, 31, 55[Crossref], Google Scholar
308Goldman, A. S., Roy, A. H., Huang, Z., Ahuja, R., Schinski, W., and Brookhart, M. Science 2006, 312, 257[Crossref], Google Scholar
309Bailey, B. C., Schrock, R. R., Kundu, S., Goldman, A. S., Huang, Z., and Brookhart, M. Organometallics 2009, 28, 355[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
310Rataboul, F., Copéret, C., Lefort, L., de Mallmann, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Dalton Trans. 2007, 923[Crossref], Google Scholar
311Blanc, F., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Hock, A. S., Tonzetich, Z. J., and Schrock, R. R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 1044[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
312Blanc, F., Berthoud, R., Salameh, A., Basset, J.-M., Copéret, C., Singh, R., and Schrock, R. R. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 8434[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
313Weiss, K. and Loessel, G. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 1989, 28, 62[Crossref], Google Scholar
314Buffon, R., Leconte, M., Choplin, A., and Basset, J.-M. J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 1994, 1723[Crossref], Google Scholar
315Merle, N., Stoffelbach, F., Taoufik, M., Le Roux, E., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J. M. Chem. Commun. 2009, 2523[Crossref], Google Scholar
316Taoufik, M., Schwab, E., Schultz, M., Vanoppen, D., Walter, M., Thivolle-Cazat, J., and Basset, J.-M. Chem. Commun. 2004, 1434[Crossref], Google Scholar
317Thieuleux, C., Maraval, A., Veyre, L., Copéret, C., Soulivong, D., Basset, J.-M., and Sunley, G. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 2288[Crossref], Google Scholar
318Soulivong, D., Copéret, C., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J.-M., Maunders, B. M., Pardy, R. B. A., and Sunley, G. J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2004, 43, 5366[Crossref], Google Scholar
319Basset, J. M., Thivolle, C. J., and Taoufik, M.(CNRS) FR2841241 , 2003.Google Scholar
320Copéret, C. Pure Appl. Chem. 2009, 81, 585[Crossref], Google Scholar
321Clerici, M. G. Appl. Catal. 1991, 68, 249[Crossref], Google Scholar
322Bare, S. R., Kelly, S. D., Sinkler, W., Low, J. J., Modica, F. S., Valencia, S., Corma, A., and Nemeth, L. T. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 12924[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
323Boronat, M., Corma, A., and Renz, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 21168[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
324Boronat, M., Concepcion, P., Corma, A., Navarro, M. T., Renz, M., and Valencia, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 2876[Crossref], Google Scholar
325Zecchina, A., Spoto, G., and Bordiga, S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 1627[Crossref], Google Scholar
326Lamberti, C., Groppo, E., Spoto, G., Bordiga, S., and Zecchina, A. Adv. Catal. 2007, 51, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
327Banares, M. A. Catal. Today 2005, 100, 71[Crossref], Google Scholar
328Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 4910[Crossref], Google Scholar
329Sklenak, S., Dedecek, J., Li, C., Wichterlova, B., Gabova, V., Sierka, M., and Sauer, J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 1237[Crossref], Google Scholar
330Evans, J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 3045[Crossref], Google Scholar
331Alexeev, O. and Gates, B. C. Top. Catal. 2000, 10, 273[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
332Zou, X. and Hovmoller, S. Acta Crystallogr., A. 2008, 64, 149[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
333Friedrich, H., de Jongh, P. E., Verkleij, A. J., and de Jong, K. P. Chem. Rev. 2009, 109, 1613[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
334Corma, A. Chem. Rev. 1997, 97, 2373[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
335Schuth, F. and Schmidt, W. Adv. Mater. 2002, 14, 629[Crossref], Google Scholar
336Taguchi, A. and Schuth, F. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2005, 77, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
337Lu, A. H. and Schuth, F. Adv. Mater. 2006, 18, 1793[Crossref], Google Scholar
338Fujdala, K. L. and Tilley, T. D. J. Catal. 2003, 216, 265[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
339Mizuno, N. and Misono, M. Chem. Rev. 1998, 98, 199[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
340Vedrine, J. C. and Millet, J.-M. M. Met. Oxide Catal. 2009, 2, 561[CAS], Google Scholar
341Pamies, O. and Backvall, J. E. Chem. Rev. 2003, 103, 3247[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
342Corma, A. Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 2004, 46, 369[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
343Piera, J. and Backvall, J. E. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 3506[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
6
Mentioning
257
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 389 publications.
Yu-Feng Ding, Ling-Yu Pan, Qiang Wan, Shuang-Feng Yin, Meng-Qiu Cai. Recognition of Water-Induced Double-Edged Sword Effects in Photocatalytic Selective Oxidation of Toluene on Titanium Dioxide Clusters with Density Functional Theory Calculations. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2023, 88 (10) , 6304-6312. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c01276
Dragan B. Ninković, Salvador Moncho, Predrag Petrović, Michael B. Hall, Snežana D. Zarić, Edward N. Brothers. Improving a Methane C–H Activation Complex by Metal and Ligand Alterations from Computational Results. Inorganic Chemistry 2023, 62 (13) , 5058-5066. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.2c03342
Chenlu Xie, Eddie Sun, Gang Wan, Jian Zheng, Raghubir Gupta, Arun Majumdar. Transport Mediating Core–Shell Photocatalyst Architecture for Selective Alkane Oxidation. Nano Letters 2023, 23 (5) , 2039-2045. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c04567
Hongda Zhu, Timothy A. Jackson, Bala Subramaniam. Facile Ozonation of Light Alkanes to Oxygenates with High Atom Economy in Tunable Condensed Phase at Ambient Temperature. JACS Au 2023, 3 (2) , 498-507. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00631
Michael A. Denchy, Linjie Wang, Benjamin R. Bilik, Lucas Hansen, Sandra Albornoz, Francisco Lizano, Nicolas Blando, Zachary Hicks, Gerd Gantefoer, Kit H. Bowen. Ultrasmall Cluster Model for Investigating Single Atom Catalysis: Dehydrogenation of 1-Propanamine by Size-Selected Pt1Zr2O7 Clusters Supported on HOPG. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2022, 126 (42) , 7578-7590. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.2c03149
Hongyu Chen, Pan Gao, Zhengmao Liu, Lixin Liang, Qiao Han, Zhili Wang, Kuizhi Chen, Zhenchao Zhao, Meiling Guo, Xuebin Liu, Xiuwen Han, Xinhe Bao, Guangjin Hou. Direct Detection of Reactive Gallium-Hydride Species on the Ga2O3 Surface via Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (38) , 17365-17375. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01005
Jiajia Shi, Yao Wei, Dan Zhou, Leilei Zhang, Xiaofeng Yang, Zhili Miao, Haifeng Qi, Shengxin Zhang, Anqi Li, Xiaoyan Liu, Wensheng Yan, Zheng Jiang, Aiqin Wang, Tao Zhang. Introducing Co–O Moiety to Co–N–C Single-Atom Catalyst for Ethylbenzene Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (13) , 7760-7772. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01873
Dongmiao Li, Jinni Shen, Jiangjie Zhang, Yao Chai, Yanyu Xie, Chengwei Qiu, Mengmeng Ni, Yuanhui Zheng, Xuxu Wang, Zizhong Zhang. Photocatalytic Chlorination of Methane Using Alkali Chloride Solution. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7004-7013. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01228
Jinqiu Guo, Mi Peng, Zhimin Jia, Chengyu Li, Hongyang Liu, Hongbo Zhang, Ding Ma. Kinetic Evidence of Most Abundant Surface Intermediates Variation over Ptn and Ptp: Few-Atom Pt Ensembles Enable Efficient Catalytic Cyclohexane Dehydrogenation for Hydrogen Production-II. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7248-7261. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01420
Francisco Zaera. Designing Sites in Heterogeneous Catalysis: Are We Reaching Selectivities Competitive With Those of Homogeneous Catalysts?. Chemical Reviews 2022, 122 (9) , 8594-8757. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00905
Mona Abdelgaid, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Lewis Acid–Base Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4268-4289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00229
Yanfei Zhang, Liang Qi, Branden Leonhardt, Alexis T. Bell. Mechanism and Kinetics of n-Butane Dehydrogenation to 1,3-Butadiene Catalyzed by Isolated Pt Sites Grafted onto ≡SiOZn–OH Nests in Dealuminated Zeolite Beta. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (6) , 3333-3345. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00059
Jennifer N. Jocz, Yimeng Lyu, Bryan J. Hare, Carsten Sievers. Characterization of Surface Species during Benzene Hydroxylation over a NiO-Ceria-Zirconia Catalyst. Langmuir 2022, 38 (1) , 458-471. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.1c02833
Khai Chen Tan, Teng He, Yong Shen Chua, Ping Chen. Recent Advances of Catalysis in the Hydrogenation and Dehydrogenation of N-Heterocycles for Hydrogen Storage. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (34) , 18553-18566. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c04783
Teng Li, Tuiana Shoinkhorova, Jorge Gascon, Javier Ruiz-Martínez. Aromatics Production via Methanol-Mediated Transformation Routes. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (13) , 7780-7819. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c01422
Manouchehr Nadjafi, Agnieszka M. Kierzkowska, Andac Armutlulu, Rene Verel, Alexey Fedorov, Paula M. Abdala, Christoph R. Müller. Correlating the Structural Evolution of ZnO/Al2O3 to Spinel Zinc Aluminate with its Catalytic Performance in Propane Dehydrogenation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (25) , 14065-14074. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c03175
C. S. Praveen, A. P. Borosy, C. Copéret, A. Comas-Vives. Strain in Silica-Supported Ga(III) Sites: Neither Too Much nor Too Little for Propane Dehydrogenation Catalytic Activity. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (10) , 6865-6874. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c03135
Scott R. Docherty, Christophe Copéret. Deciphering Metal–Oxide and Metal–Metal Interplay via Surface Organometallic Chemistry: A Case Study with CO2 Hydrogenation to Methanol. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (18) , 6767-6780. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c02555
Hongda Zhu, Timothy A. Jackson, Bala Subramaniam. Highly Selective Isobutane Hydroxylation by Ozone in a Pressure-Tuned Biphasic Gas–Liquid Process. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2021, 9 (16) , 5506-5512. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c01004
Rachel Martin, Minkyu Kim, Aravind Asthagiri, Jason F. Weaver. Alkane Activation and Oxidation on Late-Transition-Metal Oxides: Challenges and Opportunities. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (8) , 4682-4703. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c00612
Dmitry N. Kholodkov, Ashot V. Arzumanyan, Roman A. Novikov, Alexey S. Kashin, Alexander V. Polezhaev, Viktor G. Vasil’ev, Aziz M. Muzafarov. Silica-Based Aerogels with Tunable Properties: The Highly Efficient BF3-Catalyzed Preparation and Look inside Their Structure. Macromolecules 2021, 54 (4) , 1961-1975. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02598
Yiwen Zhang, Min Zhang, Zhengbo Han, Shijun Huang, Daqiang Yuan, Weiping Su. Atmosphere-Pressure Methane Oxidation to Methyl Trifluoroacetate Enabled by a Porous Organic Polymer-Supported Single-Site Palladium Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (3) , 1008-1013. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05205
Victor Fung, Guoxiang Hu, Zili Wu, De-en Jiang. Hydrogen in Nanocatalysis. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2020, 11 (17) , 7049-7057. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c01783
Xianhua Zhang, Chunlei Pei, Xin Chang, Sai Chen, Rui Liu, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Rentao Mu, Jinlong Gong. FeO6 Octahedral Distortion Activates Lattice Oxygen in Perovskite Ferrite for Methane Partial Oxidation Coupled with CO2 Splitting. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (26) , 11540-11549. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c04643
Ganhua Qiu, Ting Wang, Xiaoli Li, Xueqin Tao, Benxia Li. Novel BiOCl/BiCl3Br–CTA Heterostructure Photocatalyst with Abundant Oxygen Vacancies and a Superoleophilic Surface for Promoting Selective Oxidation of Toluene. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2020, 59 (25) , 11517-11526. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01796
Alessandro Longo, Stavros Alexandros Theofanidis, Chiara Cavallari, Nadadur Veeraraghavan Srinath, Jiawei Hu, Hilde Poelman, Maarten K. Sabbe, Christoph J. Sahle, Guy B. Marin, Vladimir V. Galvita. What Makes Fe-Modified MgAl2O4 an Active Catalyst Support? Insight from X-ray Raman Scattering. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (12) , 6613-6622. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00759
Mineyuki Shimizu, Kumiko Michikawa, Yoshifumi Maegawa, Shinji Inagaki, Ken-ichi Fujita. Iridium Complex Immobilized on Custom-Designed Periodic Mesoporous Organosilica as Reusable Catalyst for the Dehydrogenative Oxidation of Alcohols. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2020, 3 (3) , 2527-2535. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b02607
Manouchehr Nadjafi, Paula M. Abdala, Rene Verel, Davood Hosseini, Olga V. Safonova, Alexey Fedorov, Christoph R. Müller. Reducibility and Dispersion Influence the Activity in Silica-Supported Vanadium-Based Catalysts for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane: The Case of Sodium Decavanadate. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (3) , 2314-2321. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b04752
Manoja K. Samantaray, Valerio D’Elia, Eva Pump, Laura Falivene, Moussab Harb, Samy Ould Chikh, Luigi Cavallo, Jean-Marie Basset. The Comparison between Single Atom Catalysis and Surface Organometallic Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2020, 120 (2) , 734-813. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00238
Carly Byron, Shi Bai, Gokhan Celik, Magali S. Ferrandon, Cong Liu, Chaoying Ni, Ali Mehdad, Massimiliano Delferro, Raul F. Lobo, Andrew V. Teplyakov. Role of Boron in Enhancing the Catalytic Performance of Supported Platinum Catalysts for the Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of n-Butane. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (2) , 1500-1510. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b04689
Afshan Mohajeri . From Subnanometric Clusters toward Single-Atom Catalysts. 2020, 17-36. https://doi.org/10.1021/bk-2020-1360.ch002
Anton A. Gabrienko, Sergei S. Arzumanov, Alexander V. Toktarev, Dieter Freude, Jürgen Haase, Alexander G. Stepanov. Propylene Transformation on Zn-Modified Zeolite: Is There Any Difference in the Effect of Zn2+ Cations or ZnO Species on the Reaction Occurrence?. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (45) , 27573-27583. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b07672
Ka Wing Chan, Deni Mance, Olga V. Safonova, Christophe Copéret. Well-Defined Silica-Supported Tungsten(IV)–Oxo Complex: Olefin Metathesis Activity, Initiation, and Role of Brønsted Acid Sites. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (45) , 18286-18292. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09493
Jian-Feng Wu, Xu-Dong Gao, Long-Min Wu, Wei David Wang, Si-Min Yu, Shi Bai. Mechanistic Insights on the Direct Conversion of Methane into Methanol over Cu/Na–ZSM-5 Zeolite: Evidence from EPR and Solid-State NMR. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (9) , 8677-8681. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02898
Vasily V. Kaichev, Yuriy A. Chesalov, Andrey A. Saraev, Anna M. Tsapina. A Mechanistic Study of Dehydrogenation of Propane over Vanadia–Titania Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2019, 123 (32) , 19668-19680. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b04991
Christophe Copéret. Single-Sites and Nanoparticles at Tailored Interfaces Prepared via Surface Organometallic Chemistry from Thermolytic Molecular Precursors. Accounts of Chemical Research 2019, 52 (6) , 1697-1708. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.9b00138
Nao Tsunoji, Hidechika Nishida, Yusuke Ide, Kenji Komaguchi, Shinjiro Hayakawa, Yuya Yagenji, Masahiro Sadakane, Tsuneji Sano. Photocatalytic Activation of C–H Bonds by Spatially Controlled Chlorine and Titanium on the Silicate Layer. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (6) , 5742-5751. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b01284
Yupeng Du, Abdallah S. Berrouk, Lejing Sun, Weizhen Sun, Deren Fang, Wanzhong Ren. Experimental and Computational Fluid Dynamics Investigations of Light Alkane Dehydrogenation in a Fluidized Bed Reactor. Energy & Fuels 2019, 33 (5) , 4177-4189. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.9b00474
Zoha H. Syed, David M. Kaphan, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Magali S. Ferrandon, Evan C. Wegener, Gokhan Celik, Jianguo Wen, Cong Liu, Fulya Dogan, Karen I. Goldberg, Massimiliano Delferro. Electrophilic Organoiridium(III) Pincer Complexes on Sulfated Zirconia for Hydrocarbon Activation and Functionalization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2019, 141 (15) , 6325-6337. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b00896
Mitchell C. Cholewinski, Mudit Dixit, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Computational Study of Methane Activation on γ-Al2O3. ACS Omega 2018, 3 (12) , 18242-18250. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.8b02554
Pavlo Kostetskyy, Carly M. Nolan, Mudit Dixit, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Understanding Alkane Dehydrogenation through Alcohol Dehydration on γ-Al2O3. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2018, 57 (49) , 16657-16663. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.8b04392
Mudit Dixit, Pavlo Kostetskyy, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Alkane Dehydrogenation on γ-Al2O3: Site-Dependent Reactions. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (12) , 11570-11578. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b03484
Lu-Na Song, Feng Ding, Ya-Kun Yang, Du Ding, Lang Chen, Chak-Tong Au, Shuang-Feng Yin. Synthesis of TiO2/Bi2MoO6 Composite for Partial Oxidation of Aromatic Alkanes under Visible-Light Illumination. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2018, 6 (12) , 17044-17050. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b04403
Jeffrey Camacho-Bunquin, Magali S. Ferrandon, Hyuntae Sohn, A. Jeremy Kropf, Ce Yang, Jianguo Wen, Ryan A. Hackler, Cong Liu, Gokhan Celik, Christopher L. Marshall, Peter C. Stair, Massimiliano Delferro. Atomically Precise Strategy to a PtZn Alloy Nanocluster Catalyst for the Deep Dehydrogenation of n-Butane to 1,3-Butadiene. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (11) , 10058-10063. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02794
Yiqing Zhao, Hyuntae Sohn, Bo Hu, Jens Niklas, Oleg G. Poluektov, Jun Tian, Massimiliano Delferro, Adam S. Hock. Zirconium Modification Promotes Catalytic Activity of a Single-Site Cobalt Heterogeneous Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Omega 2018, 3 (9) , 11117-11127. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.8b00862
Keith Searles, Ka Wing Chan, Jorge Augusto Mendes Burak, Dmitry Zemlyanov, Olga Safonova, Christophe Copéret. Highly Productive Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst Using Silica-Supported Ga–Pt Nanoparticles Generated from Single-Sites. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (37) , 11674-11679. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b05378
Ágnes Szécsényi, Guanna Li, Jorge Gascon, Evgeny A. Pidko. Mechanistic Complexity of Methane Oxidation with H2O2 by Single-Site Fe/ZSM-5 Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (9) , 7961-7972. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b01672
Caiyun Geng, Jilai Li, Thomas Weiske, Helmut Schwarz. Thermal O–H Bond Activation of Water As Mediated by Heteronuclear [Al2Mg2O5]•+: Evidence for Oxygen-Atom Scrambling. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (29) , 9275-9281. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b05618
Jonathan William Estes, Mudit Dixit, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Understanding the Gas Phase Chemistry of Alkanes with First-Principles Calculations. Journal of Chemical & Engineering Data 2018, 63 (7) , 2430-2437. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jced.7b00992
Yuta Tsuji, Kazunari Yoshizawa. Adsorption and Activation of Methane on the (110) Surface of Rutile-type Metal Dioxides. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (27) , 15359-15381. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b03184
Estefanía Díaz, Albeiro Restrepo, Francisco Núñez-Zarur. Reactivity of a Silica-Supported Mo Alkylidene Catalyst toward Alkanes: A DFT Study on the Metathesis of Propane. Organometallics 2018, 37 (13) , 2023-2036. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.8b00090
Matthew C. Simons, Manuel A. Ortuño, Varinia Bernales, Carlo Alberto Gaggioli, Christopher J. Cramer, Aditya Bhan, Laura Gagliardi. C–H Bond Activation on Bimetallic Two-Atom Co-M Oxide Clusters Deposited on Zr-Based MOF Nodes: Effects of Doping at the Molecular Level. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (4) , 2864-2869. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00012
Jeffrey Camacho-Bunquin, Magali Ferrandon, Hyuntae Sohn, Dali Yang, Cong Liu, Patricia Anne Ignacio-de Leon, Frédéric A. Perras, Marek Pruski, Peter C. Stair, Massimiliano Delferro. Chemoselective Hydrogenation with Supported Organoplatinum(IV) Catalyst on Zn(II)-Modified Silica. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2018, 140 (11) , 3940-3951. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b11981
Helmut Schwarz, Sason Shaik, and Jilai Li . Electronic Effects on Room-Temperature, Gas-Phase C–H Bond Activations by Cluster Oxides and Metal Carbides: The Methane Challenge. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (48) , 17201-17212. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10139
Andrew G. Bean Getsoian, Bo Hu, Jeffrey T. Miller, and Adam S. Hock . Silica-Supported, Single-Site Sc and Y Alkyls for Catalytic Hydrogenation of Propylene. Organometallics 2017, 36 (19) , 3677-3685. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00623
Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Xavier Solans-Monfort, and Albeiro Restrepo . Mechanistic Insights into Alkane Metathesis Catalyzed by Silica-Supported Tantalum Hydrides: A DFT Study. Inorganic Chemistry 2017, 56 (17) , 10458-10473. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b01464
Dragan B. Ninković, Salvador Moncho, Predrag V. Petrović, Snežana D. Zarić, Michael B. Hall, and Edward N. Brothers . Methane Activations by Titanium Neopentylidene Complexes: Electronic Resilience and Steric Control. Inorganic Chemistry 2017, 56 (15) , 9264-9272. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b01340
Deven P. Estes, Amanda K. Cook, Erwin Lam, Louise Wong, and Christophe Copéret . Understanding the Lewis Acidity of Co(II) Sites on a Silica Surface. Inorganic Chemistry 2017, 56 (14) , 7731-7736. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b00443
Murielle F. Delley, Giuseppe Lapadula, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives, Vidmantas Kalendra, Gunnar Jeschke, Dirk Baabe, Marc D. Walter, Aaron J. Rossini, Anne Lesage, Lyndon Emsley, Olivier Maury, and Christophe Copéret . Local Structures and Heterogeneity of Silica-Supported M(III) Sites Evidenced by EPR, IR, NMR, and Luminescence Spectroscopies. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (26) , 8855-8867. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b02179
Caiyun Geng, Jilai Li, Thomas Weiske, Maria Schlangen, Sason Shaik, and Helmut Schwarz . Electrostatic and Charge-Induced Methane Activation by a Concerted Double C–H Bond Insertion. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2017, 139 (4) , 1684-1689. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b12514
Helmut Schwarz, Patricio González-Navarrete, Jilai Li, Maria Schlangen, Xiaoyan Sun, Thomas Weiske, and Shaodong Zhou . Unexpected Mechanistic Variants in the Thermal Gas-Phase Activation of Methane. Organometallics 2017, 36 (1) , 8-17. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00372
Murielle F. Delley, Marius-C. Silaghi, Francisco Nuñez-Zarur, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Oleg G. Salnikov, Deven P. Estes, Igor V. Koptyug, Aleix Comas-Vives, and Christophe Copéret . X–H Bond Activation on Cr(III),O Sites (X = R, H): Key Steps in Dehydrogenation and Hydrogenation Processes. Organometallics 2017, 36 (1) , 234-244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00744
Deven P. Estes, Georges Siddiqi, Florian Allouche, Kirill V. Kovtunov, Olga V. Safonova, Alexander L. Trigub, Igor V. Koptyug, and Christophe Copéret . C–H Activation on Co,O Sites: Isolated Surface Sites versus Molecular Analogs. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (45) , 14987-14997. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b08705
Iker Del Rosal, Ahmed Yahia, and Laurent Maron . Effects of the Grafting of Lanthanum Complexes on a Silica Surface on the Reactivity: Influence on Ethylene, Propylene, and 1,3-Butadiene Homopolymerization. Inorganic Chemistry 2016, 55 (20) , 10024-10033. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6b01238
Jilai Li, Shaodong Zhou, Jun Zhang, Maria Schlangen, Dandamudi Usharani, Sason Shaik, and Helmut Schwarz . Mechanistic Variants in Gas-Phase Metal-Oxide Mediated Activation of Methane at Ambient Conditions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (35) , 11368-11377. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07246
Ramij R. Mondal, Saikat Khamarui, and Dilip K. Maiti . CuBr–ZnI2 Combo-Catalysis for Mild CuI–CuIII Switching and sp2 C–H Activated Rapid Cyclization to Quinolines and Their Sugar-Based Chiral Analogues: A UV–Vis and XPS Study. ACS Omega 2016, 1 (2) , 251-263. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.6b00185
Christophe Copéret, Deven P. Estes, Kim Larmier, and Keith Searles . Isolated Surface Hydrides: Formation, Structure, and Reactivity. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (15) , 8463-8505. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00082
Juan I. González-Pérez, Avelino Martín, Miguel Mena, and Cristina Santamaría . C–H Activation on an Oxo-Bridged Dititanium Complex: From Alkyl to μ-Alkylidene Functionalities. Organometallics 2016, 35 (15) , 2488-2493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.6b00381
Matthew E. O’Reilly, Saikat Dutta, and Adam S. Veige . β-Alkyl Elimination: Fundamental Principles and Some Applications. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (14) , 8105-8145. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00054
Jilai Li, Shaodong Zhou, Jun Zhang, Maria Schlangen, Thomas Weiske, Dandamudi Usharani, Sason Shaik, and Helmut Schwarz . Electronic Origins of the Variable Efficiency of Room-Temperature Methane Activation by Homo- and Heteronuclear Cluster Oxide Cations [XYO2]+ (X, Y = Al, Si, Mg): Competition between Proton-Coupled Electron Transfer and Hydrogen-Atom Transfer. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (25) , 7973-7981. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b03798
Alma I. Olivos-Suarez, Àgnes Szécsényi, Emiel J. M. Hensen, Javier Ruiz-Martinez, Evgeny A. Pidko, and Jorge Gascon . Strategies for the Direct Catalytic Valorization of Methane Using Heterogeneous Catalysis: Challenges and Opportunities. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (5) , 2965-2981. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00428
Takashi Kurogi, Patrick J. Carroll, and Daniel J. Mindiola . A Terminally Bound Niobium Methylidyne. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (13) , 4306-4309. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b00830
Hien N. Pham, Jesper J. H. B. Sattler, Bert M. Weckhuysen, and Abhaya K. Datye . Role of Sn in the Regeneration of Pt/γ-Al2O3 Light Alkane Dehydrogenation Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (4) , 2257-2264. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02917
Mark Bachrach, Tobin J. Marks, and Justin M. Notestein . Understanding the Hydrodenitrogenation of Heteroaromatics on a Molecular Level. ACS Catalysis 2016, 6 (3) , 1455-1476. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02286
Stéphanie Halbert, Christophe Copéret, Christophe Raynaud, and Odile Eisenstein . Elucidating the Link between NMR Chemical Shifts and Electronic Structure in d0 Olefin Metathesis Catalysts. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2016, 138 (7) , 2261-2272. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b12597
Christophe Copéret, Aleix Comas-Vives, Matthew P. Conley, Deven P. Estes, Alexey Fedorov, Victor Mougel, Haruki Nagae, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, and Pavel A. Zhizhko . Surface Organometallic and Coordination Chemistry toward Single-Site Heterogeneous Catalysts: Strategies, Methods, Structures, and Activities. Chemical Reviews 2016, 116 (2) , 323-421. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00373
Aleix Comas-Vives, Maxence Valla, Christophe Copéret, and Philippe Sautet . Cooperativity between Al Sites Promotes Hydrogen Transfer and Carbon–Carbon Bond Formation upon Dimethyl Ether Activation on Alumina. ACS Central Science 2015, 1 (6) , 313-319. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.5b00226
Zhong-Jian Cai, Chao Yang, Shun-Yi Wang, and Shun-Jun Ji . Palladium-Catalyzed Regioselective C–H Acylation of Biaryl-2-amines. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2015, 80 (16) , 7928-7936. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.5b00962
Weixing Gu, Madelyn Marie Stalzer, Christopher P. Nicholas, Alak Bhattacharyya, Alessandro Motta, James R. Gallagher, Guanghui Zhang, Jeffrey T. Miller, Takeshi Kobayashi, Marek Pruski, Massimiliano Delferro, and Tobin J. Marks . Benzene Selectivity in Competitive Arene Hydrogenation: Effects of Single-Site Catalyst···Acidic Oxide Surface Binding Geometry. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2015, 137 (21) , 6770-6780. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b03254
Matthew P. Conley, Murielle F. Delley, Francisco Núñez-Zarur, Aleix Comas-Vives, and Christophe Copéret . Heterolytic Activation of C–H Bonds on CrIII–O Surface Sites Is a Key Step in Catalytic Polymerization of Ethylene and Dehydrogenation of Propane. Inorganic Chemistry 2015, 54 (11) , 5065-5078. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic502696n
Pieter Vanelderen, Benjamin E. R. Snyder, Ming-Li Tsai, Ryan G. Hadt, Julie Vancauwenbergh, Olivier Coussens, Robert A. Schoonheydt, Bert F. Sels, and Edward I. Solomon . Spectroscopic Definition of the Copper Active Sites in Mordenite: Selective Methane Oxidation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2015, 137 (19) , 6383-6392. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b02817
Ali Hamieh, Yin Chen, Safwat Abdel-Azeim, Edy Abou-hamad, Serena Goh, Manoja Samantaray, Raju Dey, Luigi Cavallo, and Jean Marie Basset . Well-Defined Surface Species [(≡Si—O—)W(═O)Me3] Prepared by Direct Methylation of [(≡Si—O—)W(═O)Cl3], a Catalyst for Cycloalkane Metathesis and Transformation of Ethylene to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (4) , 2164-2171. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs5020749
Aleix Comas-Vives, Martin Schwarzwälder, Christophe Copéret, and Philippe Sautet . Carbon–Carbon Bond Formation by Activation of CH3F on Alumina. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (13) , 7156-7163. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp512598p
Nassima Riache, Alexandre Dery, Emmanuel Callens, Albert Poater, Manoja Samantaray, Raju Dey, Jinhua Hong, Kun Li, Luigi Cavallo, and Jean-Marie Basset . Silica-Supported Tungsten Carbynes (≡SiO)xW(≡CH)(Me)y (x = 1, y = 2; x = 2, y = 1): New Efficient Catalysts for Alkyne Cyclotrimerization. Organometallics 2015, 34 (4) , 690-695. https://doi.org/10.1021/om500684e
Cedric Colomban, Evgenij V. Kudrik, Valerie Briois, Janine C. Shwarbrick, Alexander B. Sorokin, and Pavel Afanasiev . X-ray Absorption and Emission Spectroscopies of X-Bridged Diiron Phthalocyanine Complexes (FePc)2X (X = C, N, O) Combined with DFT Study of (FePc)2X and Their High-Valent Diiron Oxo Complexes. Inorganic Chemistry 2014, 53 (21) , 11517-11530. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic501463q
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler, Javier Ruiz-Martinez, Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez, and Bert M. Weckhuysen . Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides. Chemical Reviews 2014, 114 (20) , 10613-10653. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr5002436
Junjun Shan, Weixin Huang, Luan Nguyen, Ying Yu, Shiran Zhang, Yuanyuan Li, Anatoly I. Frenkel, and Franklin (Feng) Tao . Conversion of Methane to Methanol with a Bent Mono(μ-oxo)dinickel Anchored on the Internal Surfaces of Micropores. Langmuir 2014, 30 (28) , 8558-8569. https://doi.org/10.1021/la501184b
Sergei S. Arzumanov, Ilya B. Moroz, Dieter Freude, Jürgen Haase, and Alexander G. Stepanov . Methane Activation on In-Modified ZSM-5 Zeolite. H/D Hydrogen Exchange of the Alkane with Brønsted Acid Sites. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (26) , 14427-14432. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp5037316
Matthew P. Conley, Christophe Copéret, and Chloé Thieuleux . Mesostructured Hybrid Organic–Silica Materials: Ideal Supports for Well-Defined Heterogeneous Organometallic Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2014, 4 (5) , 1458-1469. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs500262t
Jincan Zhao, Hong Fang, Wei Zhou, Jianlin Han, and Yi Pan . Iron-Catalyzed Cross-Dehydrogenative Coupling Esterification of Unactive C(sp3)–H Bonds with Carboxylic Acids for the Synthesis of α-Acyloxy Ethers. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2014, 79 (9) , 3847-3855. https://doi.org/10.1021/jo500192h
Shanping Chen, Yunfeng Liao, Feng Zhao, Hongrui Qi, Saiwen Liu, and Guo-Jun Deng . Palladium-Catalyzed Direct Arylation of Indoles with Cyclohexanones. Organic Letters 2014, 16 (6) , 1618-1621. https://doi.org/10.1021/ol500231c
Ja Hun Kwak, Robert Dagle, Gerald C. Tustin, Joseph R. Zoeller, Lawrence F. Allard, and Yong Wang . Molecular Active Sites in Heterogeneous Ir–La/C-Catalyzed Carbonylation of Methanol to Acetates. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2014, 5 (3) , 566-572. https://doi.org/10.1021/jz402728e
Miao Sun, Jizhe Zhang, Piotr Putaj, Valerie Caps, Frédéric Lefebvre, Jeremie Pelletier, and Jean-Marie Basset . Catalytic Oxidation of Light Alkanes (C1–C4) by Heteropoly Compounds. Chemical Reviews 2014, 114 (2) , 981-1019. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300302b
Manoja K. Samantaray, Emmanuel Callens, Edy Abou-Hamad, Aaron J. Rossini, Cory M. Widdifield, Raju Dey, Lyndon Emsley, and Jean-Marie Basset . WMe6 Tamed by Silica: ≡Si–O–WMe5 as an Efficient, Well-Defined Species for Alkane Metathesis, Leading to the Observation of a Supported W–Methyl/Methylidyne Species. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2014, 136 (3) , 1054-1061. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja410747g
Rory Waterman . σ-Bond Metathesis: A 30-Year Retrospective. Organometallics 2013, 32 (24) , 7249-7263. https://doi.org/10.1021/om400760k
Chun Zhang, Peng Feng, and Ning Jiao . Cu-Catalyzed Esterification Reaction via Aerobic Oxygenation and C–C Bond Cleavage: An Approach to α-Ketoesters. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (40) , 15257-15262. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja4085463
Marco G. Crestani, Anne K. Hickey, Xinfeng Gao, Balazs Pinter, Vincent N. Cavaliere, Jun-Ichi Ito, Chun-Hsing Chen, and Daniel J. Mindiola . Room Temperature Dehydrogenation of Ethane, Propane, Linear Alkanes C4–C8, and Some Cyclic Alkanes by Titanium–Carbon Multiple Bonds. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (39) , 14754-14767. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja4060178
Rulong Yan, Xingxing Liu, Congming Pan, Xiaoqiang Zhou, Xiaoni Li, Xing Kang, and Guosheng Huang . Aerobic Synthesis of Substituted Quinoline from Aldehyde and Aniline: Copper-Catalyzed Intermolecular C–H Active and C–C Formative Cyclization. Organic Letters 2013, 15 (18) , 4876-4879. https://doi.org/10.1021/ol402312h
Jian-Feng Wu, Si-Min Yu, Wei David Wang, Yan-Xin Fan, Shi Bai, Chuan-Wei Zhang, Qiang Gao, Jun Huang, and Wei Wang . Mechanistic Insight into the Formation of Acetic Acid from the Direct Conversion of Methane and Carbon Dioxide on Zinc-Modified H–ZSM-5 Zeolite. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2013, 135 (36) , 13567-13573. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja406978q
Anthoula C. Papageorgiou, Sybille Fischer, Seung Cheol Oh, Özge Sağlam, Joachim Reichert, Alissa Wiengarten, Knud Seufert, Saranyan Vijayaraghavan, David Écija, Willi Auwärter, Francesco Allegretti, Robert G. Acres, Kevin C. Prince, Katharina Diller, Florian Klappenberger, and Johannes V. Barth . Self-Terminating Protocol for an Interfacial Complexation Reaction in Vacuo by Metal–Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition. ACS Nano 2013, 7 (5) , 4520-4526. https://doi.org/10.1021/nn401171z
Load more citations
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. (a) Formation of Metal−Alkyl Intermediates by C−H Bond Activation on M−OS, with OS Designating the O Atoms of the Oxide Surface and (b) Related Activation of H2
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Heterolytic Splitting of H-X on Al−OS Sites (Defect Sites): (a) X = CH3 and (b) X = H (S = surface) and x = 0 or 1. (c) σ-bond Metathesis Transition State
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. (a) Formation of the Active Sites of MeReO3/Al2O3 via C−H Bond Activation. (b) Formation of the Key Carbene Intermediates and Alkylidene Exchange Reaction (π-Bond Metathesis). (c) Grafting of Cp*2M(CH3)2 on Dehydroxylated Alumina (M = U or Th)
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Possible Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Ga2O3: (a) Formation of Alkenes; (b) Formation of H2
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Oxidation of Butane into Maleic Anhydride on VPO Catalyst: (a) Reaction Intermediates; (b) Most Commonly Accepted Mechanism for the Formation of 2-Butene
Scheme 6
Scheme 7
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Selective Chlorination of Methane by HCl/O2 Catalyzed by LaCl3 and the Proposed C−H Bond Activation Step
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Proposed Mechanisms of Alkane Dehydrogenation on Supported Chromium Oxides
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. C−H Bond Activation of Alkanes on Surface Metal Oxo Species (x = 0 or 1)
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. (a) ODH of Propane on Silica Supported VOx. (b) Proposed Mechanisms
Scheme 12
Figure 1
Figure 1. Computational models for Ga+, GaO+, and [Ga2O2]2+ sites of a Ga-zeolite, e.g. zeolite = MOR. Adapted from ref 186 with the help of the authors. Copyright 2009 Royal Society of Chemistry.
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. Dehydrogenation of Alkanes on Ga-Zeolites: (a) Ga+ Active Sites, (b) Ga═O+ Active Sites, and (c) Ga2O2 Active Sites
Figure 2
Figure 2. Computational models for σ-alkane Cu complexes in zeolites. Adapted from ref 208 with the help of the authors.
Scheme 14
Scheme 14. (a) Selective Oxidation of Benzene into Phenol by N2O Catalyzed by Fe-Zeolites; (b) Mechanism via Direct C−H Bond Activation; (c) Mechanism via Epoxidation
Scheme 15
Scheme 15. (a) C−H Bond Activation of Cycloalkanes on Silica Supported Zirconium Hydrides [Zr−H]; (b) Formation and Structure of [Zr−H]; (c) H/D Exchange Reaction Catalyzed by [Zr−H] (M = Zr); (d) Stepwise Mechanism (Favored); (e) One-Step Mechanism (Unfavored)
Scheme 16
Scheme 16. (a) Formation and Structure of the Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides [Ta−H]; (b) Reaction of [Ta−H] with Cyclopentane; (c) Reaction of [Ta−H] with CH4
Scheme 17
Scheme 17. Alumina Supported Th Hydrides and H/D Exchange Reactions: (a) Formation of [Th−H]; (b) H/D Exchange of D2/Alkane Mixtures; (c) Selectivity in Isotopomer; (d) Chain Walking Mechanims of Incorporation of D at Different Positions of an Alkane
Scheme 18
Scheme 18. (a) Methyl/Methane Exchange on a d0 Metal, e.g. M = Zr; (b) Phenyl/Benzene Exchange on Ir
Scheme 19
Scheme 19. Reaction of Alkanes (RCH2CH3) with Alkyl Alkylidene Metal Surface Species, M(═CHR1)(CH2R2): (a) C−H Bond Activation; (b) Rearrangement; (c) Formation of Cross-metathesis Products
Scheme 20
Scheme 20. Formation of Alkylidene from Bis-alkyl Surface Species via: (a) Addition of an O−H on the Alkylidene Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, (b) σ-Bond Metathesis, (c) Addition of an O−H on a Nitrido Moiety Followed by α-H Abstraction, and (c) Formation of a Bis-alkyl Species Followed by α-H Abstraction
Scheme 21
Scheme 21. Grafting of (a) [Os(═CHtBu)2(CH2tBu)2] on SiO2-(700), Yielding [(≡SiO)Os(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2], and of (b) [M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)3] on Silica or Alumina, Yielding [(EO)M(≡CtBu)(CH2tBu)2] (M = Mo or W; R = tBu; and E = Si or Al of Silica or Alumina Surfaces)
Scheme 22
Scheme 22. (a) Deactivation of Polymerization Catalysts by Formation of π-Allyl Species; (b) Deactivation of Alkene Metathesis Catalysts by Decomposition of Metallacyclobutane Intermediates (e.g. the Well-Defined Silica Supported Re Alkylidene Complex); and (c) H/D Exchange via Chain Walking
Scheme 23
Scheme 23. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Zr−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Steps for Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) a Bis-hydrides (R = CH3 for Propane). (d) β-Alkyl Transfer for M-Cycloalkyl Intermediates
Scheme 24
Scheme 24. Possible Product Formation in the Hydrogenolysis of (a) Butane and (b) 3-Methylpentane
Scheme 25
Scheme 25. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [Ta−H]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) Tris-hydride Active Sites (R = CH3 for Propane)
Scheme 26
Scheme 26. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Hydrogenolysis of Cyclic Alkanes with Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides: (A) Initial C−H Bond Activation and C−C Bond Cleavage and (B) Formation of Products
Scheme 27
Scheme 27. (a) General Equation for the Reaction of Alkane Metathesis; (b) Major Products in Alkane Metathesis; (c) Proposed Two-Site Mechanism for the Catalytic Metathesis of Alkanes (Only One of the Two Possible Metallacyclobutanes Is Represented); (d) Selected Catalyst Precursors (See Table 4 for Details)
Scheme 28
Scheme 28. Formation of Alkyl Alkylidene Intermediates from Tantalum Hydrides
Scheme 29
Scheme 29. (a) Metathesis of 2-Methylpropane; (b) Key Carbon−Carbon Bond Forming Steps from the Metallocarbene Hydride Intermediates; (c) Cross-metathesis of Ethane and Toluene
Scheme 30
Scheme 30. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Homologation of Alkanes by Oxide Supported Zirconium Hydrides
Scheme 31
Scheme 31. Catalytic Conversions of Methane via (a) Cross-metathesis with Propane, (b) Nonoxidative Coupling, (c) C−C Bond Formation in Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane, and (d) Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane and Benzene
Christophe Coperet
Christophe Copéret graduated from CPE Lyon in 1992 (Lyon, France) and obtained a PhD in chemistry in 1996 from Purdue University (West Lafayette, USA) under the guidance of Prof. E. Negishi. After a postdoctoral position in the group of Prof. K. B. Sharpless at the Scripps Research Institute, he accepted a CNRS position in 1998 in the Laboratoire de Chimie Organométallique de Surface, and he was promoted in 2008 as a CNRS research director. His research interests are at the frontier of organometallic and material chemistry, catalysis, solid state NMR spectroscopy and computational chemistry with the aim to design and develop - via a molecular approach - functional materials with applications in catalysis, bioimaging and microelectronics.

</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
