I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Selective Alkane Oxidation by Manganese Oxide: Site Isolation of MnOx Chains at the Surface of MnWO4 Nanorods
Graphical Abstract
Site isolation of surface manganese oxide species was obtained by the hydrothermal synthesis of nanostructured MnWO4. In contrast to manganese oxide, which is a combustion catalyst, MnOx chains on the exposed (010) crystal plane of MnWO4 selectively catalyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene.
Abstract
The electronic and structural properties of vanadium-containing phases govern the formation of isolated active sites at the surface of these catalysts for selective alkane oxidation. This concept is not restricted to vanadium oxide. The deliberate use of hydrothermal techniques can turn the typical combustion catalyst manganese oxide into a selective catalyst for oxidative propane dehydrogenation. Nanostructured, crystalline MnWO4 serves as the support that stabilizes a defect-rich MnOx surface phase. Oxygen defects can be reversibly replenished and depleted at the reaction temperature. Terminating MnOx zigzag chains on the (010) crystal planes are suspected to bear structurally site-isolated oxygen defects that account for the unexpectedly good performance of the catalyst in propane activation.
The prospective changes in the raw-material basis of the chemical industry to alternative feedstocks bear new scientific challenges. This concerns, in particular, the area of oxidation catalysis where small saturated hydrocarbon molecules are desired building blocks in value-added processes.1 The activation of inert CH bonds in alkanes requires highly active catalysts. Often, high activity entails low selectivity owing to the overoxidation of more reactive intermediates and desired products to CO and CO2.2 Vanadium oxide is the material that has been most widely studied for the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons and oxygenates.3 Surface-sensitive insitu experiments indicate that some well-known selective catalysts that consist of crystalline vanadium-containing phases are terminated by two-dimensional vanadium oxide layers.4 These layers deviate significantly from the bulk crystal structure in terms of their composition and the vanadium oxidation state. The layers account for dynamic charge transfer between bulk and surface. This is reflected in the gas-phase-dependent response of the work function, the electron affinity, and the surface potential barrier, which was not observed for the less-selective bulk V2O5.4i
Herein, we conceptually confirm that the selectivity of other unselective oxides, such as manganese oxide, is also tunable by applying an extended site-isolation approach. We present the first example of a vanadium-free analogue that accomplishes the efficient activation of propane by establishing a two-dimensional manganese oxide layer in form of MnOx chains at the surface of phase-pure, rod-shaped, nanostructured MnWO4 (Figure1; see also the Supporting Information, FigureS1). The catalyst was prepared by hydrothermal synthesis. A previously reported synthesis procedure,5 was modified in the current work (as described in the Supporting Information).
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
(S)TEM analysis of the MnWO4 powder catalyst. a)Overview TEM image of the MnWO4 nanorods. b)HRTEM image of one nanorod particle viewed along the [100] direction. The inset shows the power spectra recorded on either side of the defect. c)HAADF-STEM image of condensed [001] oriented MnWO4 nanorods. The surface termination was identified by phase analysis of the corresponding atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM images. d),e)Atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM images of (c). f)Schematic representation of the crystal structure of MnWO4 viewed along the [001] direction. Mnwhite, Ored, Wgreen. The original images are shown in the Supporting Information (FigureS1, 6c).
The phase purity of the synthesis product was confirmed by Rietveld refinement of the powder X-ray diffractogram (FigureS2) by anisotropic fitting. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) imaging reveals typical rod-shaped nanoparticles with diameters from 13 to 51nm (Figure1a,b, FigureS3), which is in agreement with the XRD analysis (TableS1). Fast Fourier transform (FFT) analysis of the bright-field TEM images of several particles (FigureS4) indicates the preferential growth of the rods along the [001] direction, which is in contrast to a previous report.5 Furthermore, a power spectrum (Figure1b, inset) reveals elongated spots, in particular for the (011) plane, indicating a defective structure. Inverse fast Fourier transformation (IFFT) of the 011 spots (FigureS5) indicates the presence of planar defects within the lattice. From the basal area of two condensed nanorods (Figure1c), surface terminations that include the (010), (110), and (100) planes can be distinguished. Atomic-resolution high-angle annular dark field/scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images (Figure1d and e) viewed along the [001] axis indicate the presence of two kinds of atomic dumbbells, which can be distinguished by their different contrasts. In HAADF-STEM, the contrast is due to Rutherford scattering, which is approximately proportional to Z2. Therefore, the dumbbells can be attributed to W2O8 (high contrast) and Mn2Oy (low contrast) dimers. In the schematic representation of the MnWO4 crystal structure (Figure1f), the W2O8 and Mn2Oy dimers are shown as orange and white edge-sharing octahedra, respectively.
Atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM images of the surface structure of the (010) plane viewed along the [001] direction illustrate the preferential surface exposure of Mn ions as unimers or dimers (Figure2). The images indicate a slight out-of-center shift for some Mn ions relative to their bulk crystallographic position.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Surface termination of the bplane viewed along the growth direction [001] by FFT-filtered atomic-resolution STEM images. a)HAADF, and b)inverted HAADF image. Mngreen, Wviolet. The micrographs correspond to the magnified images of Figure1d. The original images are given in the Supporting Information (FigureS6).
The Raman spectrum of nanostructured MnWO4 agrees well with the spectrum of crystalline MnWO4 (FigureS7).6 However, two additional, previously unreported bands appear at 615 and 665cm1. As the phase purity and high crystallinity of the nanostructured material had been confirmed by TEM (Figure1 and FigureS8) and XRD (FigureS2), these two bands were attributed to the MnOx clusters at the surface of the nanorods (FigureS9), which had been visualized by STEM (Figure2).7
Synchrotron-based near-ambient-pressure X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (NAP-XPS) displays a molar Mn/W ratio of 1.9 (Figure3), which thus reveals an enrichment of Mn in the outermost surface (inelastic mean free path (IMFP)=0.6nm).
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Depth profile of the elemental composition of MnWO4 nanorods at two different depths in terms of the inelastic mean free path (IMFP) of electrons measured by synchrotron-based NAP-XPS at T=300C applying a total pressure of 0.25mbar O2 and He at flows of 2 and 2.2mLmin1, respectively.
In summary, an enrichment of the surface of MnWO4 nanorods with manganese in the phase-pure, highly crystalline material was indicated by photoelectron spectroscopy. The specific surface termination is also reflected in the Raman spectrum. In line with these integral methods, locally resolved atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM images reveal partial Mn surface termination of the (010) planes (Figure2). Therefore, the Mn enrichment observed by integral methods could be primarily due to an increased occurrence of Mn-terminated (010) planes in the nanostructured material (Figure2).
The specific surface/nanostructure of MnWO4 is generated under hydrothermal conditions. Insitu Raman spectra taken during the synthesis (Figure4) provide important information on the phase formation of MnWO4. The MnWO4 nanorods develop at around 125C when a mixture of aqueous solutions of Na2WO4 and Mn(NO3)2 is heated in an autoclave (FigureS10). The transformation of an intermediate (910cm1) into crystalline MnWO4 is indicated by the appearance of bands at 884, 325, 397, 510, 544, 672, and 698cm1. The strongest band at 884cm1 has been assigned to the stretching mode of W=O in distorted WO6 octahedra.6 Interestingly, two new bands at 618 and 657cm1, which were assigned to surface MnOx clusters,7 increase in intensity with time once a synthesis temperature of 180C has been reached. MnWO4 crystallizes in a monoclinic structure (wolframite-type, ICSD-67906) in which WO6 clusters form zigzag chains by sharing edges along the [001] axis (FigureS9). In basic medium under hydrothermal conditions (pH9), WOx clusters on the surface of the (010) planes could be dissolved by nucleophilic attack of OH ions at the bridging WOW bonds [Eq.1], leaving behind leached (010) surfaces composed of MnOx zigzag chains. Subsequently, the bridging oxygen anions at the (001) surface may condense with the dissolved WO42 monomers (shoulder at 926cm1 in Figure4). Hence, the zigzag chains will propagate in one dimension by forming new OWO bridging bonds by edge sharing. Such a dissolutionrecrystallization process may result in the observed anisotropic crystal growth along the [001] axis, resulting in the rod-shaped morphology of the MnWO4 particles with a MnOx enriched surface.
(1)
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Insitu Raman spectra (2801000cm1) recorded during the hydrothermal synthesis of MnWO4 nanorods. Bands denoted with asterisks belong to the sapphire window of the Raman probe.
The nanostructured MnWO4 material was studied as a catalyst in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Conventional crystalline bulk MnWO4 is rather inactive in the reaction, which is reflected in no measurable conversion at 450C. Nanostructuring, however, as achieved by hydrothermal synthesis in the present work, can turn this material into an active catalyst with a similar performance to silica-supported vanadium oxide (Figure5). Moreover, the unique surface structure of the MnWO4 nanorods leads to superior selectivity to the desired product propylene compared with bulk manganese oxide. Manganese oxide is very active (Table1), but not very selective and transforms propane almost completely into carbon oxides. The electronic modification and/or the geometric separation of the MnOx zigzag chains on the (010) planes by W2O8 units (Figure2) apparently account for the improved performance. The propane conversion can be changed by varying the contact time at 400C (Figure5). The comparatively low temperature was chosen to avoid the influence of homogeneous gas-phase reactions, which normally contribute to non-negligible conversion at elevated reaction temperatures above 450C. The catalytic performance of the MnWO4 nanorods reached a steady state after 70hours on stream and showed no signs of deactivation within 108hours (FigureS11). Importantly, the Mn-terminated MnWO4 nanorods exhibit a much higher apparent turnover frequency (TOF) than silica-supported vanadium oxide species (Table1) when all Mnatoms at the (010) surfaces and all Vatoms are considered to be active sites. However, in reality, the number of active sites at the surface of the catalysts might be much lower.
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Catalytic performance of nanostructured MnWO4 (T=400C, W/F=1.80.9gsmL1) in comparison to VOx/SiO2 (T=400420C, W/F=1.8gsmL1) and various manganese oxides (T=330395C, W/F=1.8gsmL1) in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane in a C3H8/O2/N2 feed (10:5:85). The selectivity to propene is shown as a function of propane conversion. Other carbon-containing products are mainly CO and CO2.
Table 1. Active-site density and reactivity of the catalysts in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane at T=400C and W/F=1.8gsmL1 in a C3H8/O2/N2 feed (10:5:85).
Catalyst
MnWO4 nanorods
Acid-washed MnWO4[a]
VOx/SiO2[b]
Mn2O3
rC3H8 [×109molm2s1]
8.69
2.46
0.27
550
Active-site density[nm2]
8.3[c]/3[d]
1.0
10.2[e]
TOF[×10-3s1]
0.63/1.7
0.16
33
[a]Treatment described in the Supporting Information. [b]VOx supported on modified SBA-15 with a surface vanadium density of 1V atom/nm2. [c]Assuming that only MnOx species on (010) surface planes are active. [d]Assuming that only oxygen defect sites on the surface are active sites. [e]Mn density on the (100) plane.
The Mn2p XPS spectra (FigureS12) indicate that Mn is predominantly present in the +2 oxidation state at the surface and within the subsurface. Tiny differences were observed in spectra recorded under different reaction atmospheres (FigureS13); however, the interpretation of the Mn2p spectra is not straightforward owing to less distinct variations in the binding energies of compounds containing Mn in different oxidation states, elaborate multiplet splitting, and the appearance of satellites.8 In contrast, near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure (NEXAFS) spectroscopy is sensitive enough to detect the surface oxidation state of manganese oxides9 and changes in the coordination environment of the Mn ions.10 The measured line shape of the Mn L2,3edge (FigureS14) agrees well with those found for large single crystals of MnWO4.11 The spectra confirm the predominance of Mn in the +2 oxidation state both in oxygen and reaction atmosphere. Nevertheless, a small increase in the intensity ratio of the peaks at 640.0 and 641.4eV was observed during the reaction (TableS2). With increasing oxidation state or, in other words, with increasing coordination of the Mn ions by oxygen atoms, the intensity in the Mn L2,3edge spectrum is shifted towards higher energies.9 Hence, the changes in the intensity ratio of the peaks at 640.0 and 641.4eV indicate that the concentration of oxygen defects is higher in the reaction feed than under oxygen atmosphere, suggesting that the oxygen defects have a substantial impact on the catalyst performance. The oxygen defects were quantified by two temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) and reduction (TPR) cycles (FigureS15). Before the first TPO run, the catalyst was heated in argon atmosphere at 400C for two hours. Approximately three oxygen atoms per nm2 could be replenished after this treatment (TableS3). This result underlines the notion12 that only a fraction of the surface atoms is catalytically active, which, however, holds great challenges in terms of the identification of active sites. The very similar hydrogen-consumption profiles of the two TPR runs indicate that approximately 5% of the surface oxygen atoms were reversibly removed by reacting with H2 (TableS3).
After washing the catalyst with nitric acid solution and re-calcination under the same conditions as those used for the pristine MnWO4 nanorods, the catalytic activity decreased dramatically (Table1). Only Mn was detected in the washing solution (TableS4). This further corroborates our argument that surface MnOx chains are the active sites of the nanostructured MnWO4 catalyst in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
In summary, we have demonstrated that a catalytically inactive solid, such as MnWO4, can be converted into a highly active and selective catalyst by knowledge-based synthesis. Hydrothermal techniques guided by insitu spectroscopy13 were applied to control the surface termination. Insitu Raman spectroscopy provided insight into the molecular processes of crystallization, surface dissolution, and recrystallization under hydrothermal conditions. The unique self-supported structure of the one-dimensional MnOx clusters at the surface of nanostructured MnWO4 demonstrates the importance of understanding synthetic inorganic chemistry from a molecular point of view14 and the significance of studying the surface termination4d,4e, 15 of well-defined nanostructured metal oxides.16 The identification of the highly active surface MnOx units on the MnWO4 nanorods improves our understanding of the promotional effect of Mn in many catalytic systems. The design of selective oxidation catalysts will benefit from this knowledge, which will also enable the improvement of current manganese-doped catalytic systems.
Experimental Section
The hydrothermal synthesis and the thermal activation procedures of MnWO4 are described in in the Supporting Information. Insitu Raman measurements were performed with a Kaiser Optics Raman spectrometer RXN1 equipped with a fiber-optic probe head at a laser wavelength of 785nm. Additional experimental details of the characterization techniques and catalytic tests are summarized in the Supporting Information.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 