I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Perturbation of Reactivity with Geometry: How Far Can We Go?
Interest in transition-metal alloys as opposed to monometallic catalysts has grown in the years following the inspiring work of John Sinfelt. The intrinsic complexity of these systems allows us to better tailor reaction selectivity and to tune the reactivity of one metal by the presence of another. One of the early themes of the Sinfelt work was the invocation of reaction ensembles to explain differences in hydrogenolysis behavior between monometallic and bimetallic systems. (1) However, it was also recognized from the beginning that perturbation of reactivity through alloying involved both geometric effects involving creation of specific reaction ensembles (atomistic sites) and electronic effects due to changes in electron density and bonding due to charge transfer and hybridization effects in alloying. For the purposes of this Viewpoint, the term electronic effect will refer to the strength of an adsorbate interaction with the metal surface, while a geometric effect refers to the bonding configuration. This perspective will comment upon the interplay between the two effects and potential for exploiting geometric effects in alloying.
Norskov and co-workers have established relationships with regard to the adsorption behavior of d-band transition metals on the basis of the energy of the d-band center with respect to the Fermi level. (2) One observation from Norskov and Hammer is that since all transition metals in principle have the same s occupancy (and p-occupancy for that matter), then the s electron is not considered to be important in the bonding of the system, as its effect is identical for all d-band transition metals. The perturbation of the d-band can be broken down into two terms: a charge transfer effect where the filling of the d-band changes due to a charge transfer event between the metals and a hybridization effect due to the change in the overlap between the orbitals due to the change in nuclear distance and change in orbital extent when one metal is replaced for another. (3) For most d-band transition metal alloys the degree of charge transfer is insignificant and the alloy is dominated by changes in hybridization. The changes in hybridization can manifest themselves in different ways. For example, the PdM bond distance in Pd is 2.74 Å, but in the alloy PdNi bonds are 2.63 Å. This contraction results in a shift of the d-band of Pd states away from the Fermi level from 2.01 eV in Pd to 2.48 eV in the alloy. Similarly, in PdAu, the PdAu bond expands to 2.86 Å, and the d-band shifts accordingly toward the Fermi level to 1.64 eV. On the basis of these examples, in a PdPt alloy, one would expect the Pd d-band center to shift toward the Fermi level due to the larger lattice constant of Pt in comparison to Pd. However, the d-band center shifts instead slightly away from the Fermi level to 2.23 eV due to the increased overlap between Pd and Pt from the larger orbital extent of Pt (3.79 vs 3.48 Å), (4) demonstrating that both orbital extent and equilibrium bond distance determine electronic structure. It should be noted the electronic structure of the alloying element also shifts in response to the alloying event (in this case the d-band center of Pt shifts from 2.55 to 2.34 eV).Once the perturbation of the d-band due to alloying is known, the adsorption behavior of alloys (to a first approximation) can be described by average d-band filling of the metal atoms in contact with the adsorbate. (5) This simple model has been shown to provide effective guidance for understanding catalytic performance in a number of systems, as the adsorbate binding strength (and by extension the d-band center) can be correlated with its activation on the metal surface. (6)
When a d-band transition metal is alloyed with a nontransition metal (hereafter described as sp-electron metals), charge transfer can be significant. (7) Charge transfer may result in filling of the d-band for the d-band transition metal, stabilizing the d-orbitals and shifting them to lower energy, resulting in a depletion of d-orbital density near the Fermi level. For example, in the case of PdZn, the d-band center of Pd shifts from 2.01 to 2.62 eV on alloying with zinc. Coincidentally the d-band center of Pt is 2.55 eV and therefore, if one naively applied the d-band center model in this case, then a simple adsorbate such as CO should bind with the same energy on a Pd atom in the PdZn(111) surface as it does on Pt(111). However, instead the adsorption energy of CO on a Pd atop site on PdZn(111) is 0.83 eV and the adsorption energy of CO on a Pt atop site on Pt(111) is 1.90 eV (CO prefers the atop site on both of these surfaces, and in fact the presence of the PdZn alloy can be deduced from the loss of bridge sites that are preferred for CO adsorption on monometallic Pd). (8) As the d-band center model proposed by Norskov and co-workers relies upon the concept that d-orbitals extend up to the Fermi level, the d-band center is no longer a good descriptor for the adsorption event. In plots of the d-bands of Pd, Pd in PdZn, and Pt, it is evident in Figure 1 that although Pt and PdZn may have similar d-band centers, the presence of Zn results in both a shift and a narrowing of the density of states with nearly complete depletion of d-electron density near the Fermi level, demonstrating a large electronic modification from the alloying event. In addition, Bader charge analysis indicates a charge transfer of 0.41 e from Zn into Pd. Other sp-electron metal combinations with d-band transition metals give similar results for d-band center shifts (for example, for Pd, the d-band centers of PdGa and PdGe are 2.73 and 3.08 eV, respectively, while the Bader charges show donation of 0.29 and 0.47 e into Pd, respectively). Recently Montemore and Medlin have shown that electronic effects of the s- and p-electrons in metals and their interactions with adsorbates can be accounted for by a more complete treatment of orbital overlap terms that describe their bonding interactions with the surface. (9) Critical deviations between scaling of the d-band center with OH and CH adsorption can be accounted for by evaluating the additional terms, and new correlative relations can be developed. This approach outlined by Montemore and Medlin could potentially be extended to systems with metals with sp-electron valence with equal success, as now terms involving the s- and p-character of the metal become quite significant. This method could aid in the screening of these alloys for catalytic applications.
Figure 1
Figure 1. PDOS of d-orbitals of Pd, Pt, and PdZn (see the Supporting Information for calculation details).
Although electronic modification of adsorbate binding strength has been demonstrated to affect catalysis positively, (10) a common problem is often evident in that the strengths of all reactants and products are affected in a similar manner, which may limit the degree to which improvements can be made. For example, Norskov and co-workers have shown that the binding energies of CO and HCO are correlated in CO2 reduction, which limits one to a single correlative relationship in reactivity. (11) Even moving to systems with chemical intermediates of a different nature such as HCN synthesis, Grabow and co-workers found that reactivity could be described by scaling relationships of N and C binding to the surface. (6c) All monometallic surfaces examined showed behavior clustered in a broad line, which therefore limited the maximum selectivity that could be achieved. Similarly, for formic acid decomposition, selectivity to H2 formation can be correlated to the binding energy of CO vs OH. (12) Although judicious choices in alloying can be made to maximize selectivity, there remains a fairly narrow range of behavior that can be accessed. Thus, while these alloys may exhibit behavior that lies outside bounds set by their monometallic component surfaces, the behavior is still correlated directly to their electronic structure. (13) In order to break from these relationships, the bonding configuration of the adsorbate must be perturbed (in contrast to only changing the strength of adsorbate binding). At least three pathways for changing geometry have emerged in the literature over the course of the past few years: (1) intermetallic compounds, (2) single-atom alloys (SAAs), and (3) coadsorbed structural modifiers.
Intermetallic compounds lend themselves well to changing adsorbate configuration. Unlike homogeneous alloys (fully miscible solid solutions, often called random alloys), the metals are located in distinct positions within a unit cell such that the spatial relationship between the metal atoms is fixed. Furthermore, these systems have an enthalpic driving force (often driven by charge transfer) to remain in their prescribed positions, which prevents (or at least retards) surface segregation in response to adsorption events (which often plague homogeneous alloys). Knowledge of the precise atomic locations also lends study of intermetallic surfaces to theoretical examination. A recent review highlights many examples of improved catalytic performance for intermetallic compounds when compared to their monometallic cousins. (14)
PtSn is the primary example of an intermetallic system (multiple intermetallic compounds of PtSn exist with varying stoichiometry) that has found extensive use in the field. For example, PtSn alloys have found use commercially in hydrocarbon re-forming (15) and propane dehydrogenation, (16) while academics have demonstrated their success in selective hydrogenation (17) and CO-tolerant fuel cell electrodes. (18) While formation of an intermetallic phase is often speculated rather than proven in supported nanoparticle catalysis, the rich phase diagram allows, in principle, the tuning of the ensemble size to some degree to perturb adsorbate geometry. For example, Table 1 shows a group of PtSn surfaces that have been examined using density functional theory, showing the switch from di-σ-bonded C2H4 to π-bonded C2H4 as the tin content increases. Similarly, only a very small amount of Sn dramatically decreases the binding strength of toluene due to the disturbance of the proper ensemble for adsorption of the aromatic ring.
Table 1. Adsorption Energies of Toluene and Ethylene on Various Low-Energy Surfaces of PtSn Alloysa
  C2H4  
surface adsorption energy (eV) adsorption confign C7H8 adsorption energy (eV)
Pt(111) 1.64 di σ 2.37
Pt3Sn(111) 1.48 di σ 1.06
Pt2Sn(111) 1.07 di σ 0.66
PtSn(110) 0.75 π 0.75
Pt2Sn3(110) 0.73 π 0.61
PtSn2(110) 0.36 π 0.60
aAll values are reported for low coverage (either 1/9 or 1/16 ML; see Figure S1 in the Supporting Information for details). Dispersion corrections are included.
Such changes in adsorbate configuration can have profound effects on what reactions may occur. For example, in propane dehydrogenation, a common unwanted side reaction is hydrogenolysis to create ethane and methane. (8) It has been shown by Iglesia and co-workers that hydrogenolysis often involves multiple dehydrogenation steps before CC bond cleavage can occur. (19) Alloying the active metal with an sp-electron metal to alter the reactivity can have two positive effects. First, as shown in Figure 2, by a change in the electronic structure, the binding energy of propene to the surface is weakened, resulting in desorption before further dehydrogenation can occur. Second, the activation barrier for CC bond cleavage is higher due to the lack of the appropriate 3-fold hollow sites on the PdZn surface. Similar work on propane dehydrogenation on PtSn surfaces has been reported by Chen et al., although they chose to focus their interpretation on electronic effects (at least for the Pt-rich surfaces) resulting from the d-band perturbation of the alloying event. (20) In this way, one can see that the intermetallic compound surface combines both electronic effects and geometric effects to perturb reactivity in a positive way for increased selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. One interesting aspect of intermetallic compounds is that, by altering the composition slightly, different types of ensembles can be created. (21) For example, Feng et al. have shown that moving from PdIn to Pd3In results in a change in the Pd ensemble size from single isolated Pd atoms to Pd trimers. This structural change results in a loss of selectivity from 92% to 21% C2H4 in acetylene semihydrogenation. (22) It is interesting to ponder what the critical ensemble size would be for a given adsorption or reaction event. Intermetallic compounds are actually quite common, (23) so the possible ensembles are boundless, but to date much of the focus has been on a few systems (PtSn, PdZn). Armbruster and co-workers have written several papers on the use of PdGa compounds and nanoparticles thereof for acetylene semihydrogenation. (24) Similarly, Miller and co-workers have continued to test various intermetallics for alkane dehydrogenation. (25) However, much work remains to be done in order to fully explore how the systematic perturbation of ensembles may be exploited for catalyst selectivity, particularly for new reactions. It should be noted that the creation of intermetallic phases with specific compositions in the form of nanoparticles supported on high-surface-area carriers remains a considerable synthetic challenge. (26) In addition, while an enthalpic driving force exists to prevent surface segregation in response to some adsorbates, sp metals are subject to oxidation and therefore the surface of the intermetallic may deviate strongly from the bulk in the presence of oxygen. (27)
Figure 2
Figure 2. Potential energy surface diagram of C3H8 dehydrogenation over Pd(111) and PdZn(111) . See the Supporting Information for additional details.
An extreme example of a site design second material pathway toward geometric perturbation is the use of single-atom alloys (the smallest possible ensemble). To this end, Sykes and co-workers have demonstrated that Pd atoms embedded in a Cu(111) surface can act as unique sites for the activation of hydrogen and thereby boost activity and selectivity in selective hydrogenation. (28) In their combined temperature-programmed desorption/scanning tunneling microscopy study, Kyriakou et al. deposited 0.01 ML (monolayer) and 0.1 ML of Pd on a Cu(111) surface to form structures where individual Pd atoms were alloyed into a Cu (111) surface. (28a) DFT calculations predicted that the barrier for hydrogen dissociation was reduced from 0.4 to 0.02 eV but that the adsorption enthalpy was not strongly affected (0.35 eV on the alloy but 0.20 eV on Cu(111)). This prediction indicates a break from BrnstedEvansPolanyi scaling rules which would dictate that the reaction enthalpy and reaction barrier are correlated. (29) Breaking these scaling rules through a geometric effect (changing the active site) allows departure from a purely electronic structure description of catalysis. In agreement with this prediction, the desorption temperature (manifested as the barrier to associationthe reverse of the dissociation process) dropped dramatically from 310 K on Cu(111) to about 220 K on 0.01 ML Pd/Cu(111) (and even lower to 180 K on 0.1 ML Pd/Cu(111)). Selective hydrogenation of acetylene to ethylene and styrene to ethylbenzene were demonstrated successfully in order to illustrate the advantageous catalytic properties of the Pd@Cu SSA. More recently, Boucher et al. extended this approach to nanoparticles by galvanic replacement of Cu with Pd, demonstrating selective hydrogenation of phenylacetylene to styrene at a Cu:Pd ratio of 80:1. (30) Similar work presented by Louis and co-workers which examined the selective hydrogenation of butadiene over AuPd catalysts (31) and by Aich et al. which examined the selective hydrogenation of acrolein to allyl alcohol over PdAu catalysts (32) also invoked the idea of single Pd atoms allowing for a much greater selectivity to the desired products, whereas contiguous Pd atoms led to unselective hydrogenation.
The following criteria probably apply for any successful SAA catalyst. First, the reaction temperature must be rather mild. High-temperature reactions (e.g., above the Tamman temperature of the metal) may result in significant metalmetal diffusion leading to aggregation of the guest metal. (33) Second, one must avoid reactive environments that can result in segregation of the metal. For example, if one metal forms very strong metaladsorbate bonds but the other does not, then the former metal will migrate to the surface. (34) For oxidation reactions, for instance, the host metal probably should be gold, since gold will not form a bulk oxide. (35) Finally the reaction chosen must be able to take advantage of the geometric site created by the single-atom alloy. This probably implies that structure sensitive reactions are more likely to be successful. (36)
It should be mentioned that another pathway toward steering both geometry and electronic structure has emerged through coadsorbates that act as structural modifiers. This approach extends back many years through the use of sulfur, chlorine, and alkali metals to locally modify the electronic structure and block certain potential adsorption sites. (37) However, this idea has been expanded by Medlin and co-workers to tune selectivity in hydrogenation of functionalized hydrocarbons. (38) In many cases, the presence of the modifier can change the adsorption configuration of the reactant. For example, in the hydrogenation of furfural, the presence of C18 alkanethiols on palladium nanoparticles shifted the selectivity from furan to methylfuran and furfuryl alcohol by shutting down the pathways to decarbonylation while still maintaining the pathways for hydrodeoxygenation. (38b) The presence of the C18 thiol forced furfural to bond in an upright configuration, whereas in the absence of the modifier, furfural can lie down on the surface. The role of the modifier can even be an active one whereby the reactant interacts favorably with the modifier such that it adopts a more favorable adsorption geometry. In the selective hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde over coated Pt/Al2O3, the use of 3-phenyl-1-propanethiol was found to give over 90% selectivity to cinnamyl alcohol, whereas the analogous phenylbutanethiol and phenylethanethiol modifiers gave less than 80% selectivity. (38d) This increase in selectivity was attributed to favorable aromatic stacking interactions. Depending upon the type of adsorbate employed, the functionality of the modifier can be potentially adjusted accordingly in an enzymatic-inspired design to molecular specificity.
The modifiers must be thermally stable well above the reaction temperature of interest and preferably stable in the presence of air/water so that they are sufficiently robust. In addition, the modifier coverage must be appropriately tuned such that the surface is adequately accessible to potential adsorbates. Obviously, if the surface coverage so dramatically reduces the measured dispersion, then the inefficient use of the metal may be detrimental to the application. Although the previous examples generally involve monometallic catalysts, the same idea could easily be applied to bimetallic systems, where specific site configurations on the surface could be built through the use of modifiers. In addition, Medlins group has recently extended this concept to selective oxidation, showing that the SAM may also help prolong catalyst life by shutting off deactivation pathways leading to carbonaceous residues. (39)
In summary, both geometric effects and electronic effects have long been known to be present in alloy systems. As Reuter and Norskov have shown, limits emerge to the degree that electronic modification of a metal can change catalytic performance that stems from scaling relationships. (40) Therefore, exploitation of geometric effects is critical to paradigm-shifting performance improvement in metal catalysts. Through the use of unique materials which control the manner in which substrates may adsorb, these advances can be realized. Opportunities still exist in the realm of intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and surface modifiers for catalyst design.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 