I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Rational Design of Single-Atom-Doped Ga2O3 Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation: Breaking through Volcano Plot by Lewis AcidBase Interactions
Abstract
Volcano curves have proven to be particularly useful in new catalyst design in the field of heterogeneous catalysis. On the other hand, the further enhancement of the performance of the optimal catalyst for a given reaction is inherently limited by the Sabatier principle. In this work, microkinetic analysis has been carried out to examine the adsorption and catalytic behaviors of single-atom-doped Ga2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), which shows that the volcano-shaped activity plot can be broken through by Lewis acidbase interactions, making it possible to achieve better catalytic performance than that of the most active catalyst lying near the summit of the volcano. The reasoning behind this finding is that the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction over metal-oxide surfaces may strengthen the coadsorption of a pair of amphoteric species at the MO site, resulting in distinctly different chemisorption energy and transition state energy scaling relations. As a result, the formation energies of H&H coadsorption at the MO site and H adsorption on top of O are identified as two different reactivity descriptors in the presence and absence of the Lewis acidbase interaction, respectively, with the resulting activity plots exhibiting a straight-line and a volcano-curve pattern. Further experiments verify that the theoretically predicted catalyst candidate Ir1Ga2O3 is more effective than the previously reported trace-Pt-promoted Ga2O3 catalyst, which opens up a new way to the rational design of metal-oxide catalysts for the PDH process.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane dehydrogenation single-atom catalysis Ir1Ga2O3 DFT microkinetic modeling
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propylene is an important feedstock for the production of polypropylene, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide, and other chemicals, which is traditionally fabricated by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking of naphtha, light diesel, and other oil products. (1) Recently, large amounts of low-cost light alkanes are provided on the market with the exploration of shale gas, leading propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to be an attractive technology for producing propylene. Al2O3-supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts are employed in the industrial PDH processes. However, propylene selectivity and catalyst stability are still unsatisfactory on Pt-based catalysts, while CrOx-based catalysts suffer from environmental pollution. (2) Thus, driven by the strong desire to discover alternative catalysts, various metal oxides such as Ga2O3, (35) VOx, (69) ZrO2, (1012) CeO2, (13,14) ZnO, (15,16) and TiO2 (17,18) have been extensively studied, among which Ga2O3 is one of the most promising.
Recently, a trace-Pt-promoted Ga2O3/Al2O3 catalyst for PDH was reported by Sattler et al., which showed remarkably improved activity and stability. (19) To suppress deactivation of the catalyst, Im and Choi combined physical and chemical strategies to stabilize Pt, where Pt was introduced during the preparation of the Ga2O3Al2O3 support using a solgel method and single Ce atoms were doped to strengthen the interaction between Pt and the substrate. (20) More recently, Xu et al. studied the Pt deposition on Ga2O3 with different morphologies to further prevent Pt sintering and showed that the rod-shaped Ga2O3 can trap single Pt atoms and suppress Pt clustering into large particles. (21) To shed light on the reason the catalytic performance of Ga2O3 can be dramatically promoted by trace amounts of Pt, density functional theory (DFT) calculations and microkinetic analysis were performed over the single-Pt-atom-doped Ga2O3(100) surface, in which the bifunctional character of the PtGa2O3 catalyst was elucidated and the PtO and GaO sites were identified as the active sites for dehydrogenation and H2 desorption, respectively. (22)
Although these investigations have shown the promise of the PtGa2O3 catalyst for PDH and the understanding of the kinetics have been substantially strengthened, the practical application of the PtGa2O3 catalyst is still hindered by its unsatisfactory performance. On the other hand, single-atom catalysts have been intensively studied in many important catalytic processes, which offers a great potential to maximize the atom efficiency of noble metals and to tune the catalytic performance of catalysts. (23,24) Theoretically, the prediction of trends in catalytic properties employing descriptor-based volcano plots has been successfully applied to high-throughput screening of metal catalysts. (25,26) However, the strategies for the rational design of superior metal-oxide-supported single-atom catalysts are limited due to the fact that the quantitative structureactivity relationship has not yet been established. Besides, it was reported that Lewis acidbase interactions play a key role in the catalytic behavior of this type of catalyst, (27) which further increases the complexity of the system.
Herein, we combine DFT calculations, microkinetic analysis, and experiments to design M1Ga2O3 (M = MnCu, RuAg, and OsAu) catalysts for PDH. The stabilities, geometrical, and electronic structures of M1Ga2O3 are first studied. Then, chemisorption energy scaling relations are established, during which the key role of the Lewis acidbase interaction is discussed. Next, different reactivity descriptors are identified when the Lewis acidbase interaction is present or absent on the metal-oxide surfaces. After that, the activity, stability, and selectivity of the catalysts are examined to locate the optimal catalyst, which shows that the volcano-shaped activity plot can be broken through by the Lewis acidbase interaction. Finally, experiments are carried out to verify our theoretically predicted catalyst candidate.
2. Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. DFT Calculation
Spin-polarized DFT calculations were carried out using the Vienna ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). (2830) The generalized gradient approximation (GGA) with the Bayesian error estimation functional with van der Waals correlation (BEEF-vdW) (31) was employed to account for the exchange and correlation of the KohnSham theory. The plane-wave energy cutoff was set to 600 eV. Calculations were considered to be converged when the forces on each atom were <0.05 eV/Å. Both the dimer (32) and the climbing-image nudged elastic band (CI-NEB) method (33,34) were used to locate the transition states (TSs), which were then verified to have only one imaginary frequency.
The adsorption energy of species (ΔEads,adsorbate) is calculated as follows
(1)
where Esurface+adsorbate, Esurface, and Eadsorbate are the total energies of the surface with the adsorbate, surface, and gas-phase adsorbate, respectively. The binding energy (ΔEbindings) of single metal atoms is defined as
(2)
where EM1Ga2O3, Edefective, and EM are the total energies of the surface with a Ga(o)/Ga(t)/O atom replaced by a single metal atom, the surface with a Ga(o)/Ga(t)/O atom removed, and free single metal atom, respectively. The oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEf,O-vac) is defined as
(3)
where EsurfaceO-deficient, Esurface, and EO2 are the total energies of the surface with an oxygen atom removed, surface, and gas-phase O2, respectively. The cohesive energy (ΔEcoh,M) of metal is defined as the energy associated with taking the atoms from the gas phase to the condensed state:
(4)
where Ebulk,M, NM, and EM are the energy of bulk metal, number of atoms in the bulk metal, and the energy of the free metal atom, respectively.
2.2. Construction of Structural Models
The lattice parameters of β-Ga2O3 are calculated to be a = 12.46 Å, b = 3.09 Å, c = 5.89 Å, and β = 103.71, which are in good agreement with those obtained by experimental (35,36) and other theoretical methods. (3739) As the energetically most favorable termination, (37,4042) Ga2O3(100)-B with a p(3 × 2) supercell was employed in this work, which consists of 120 atoms in six layers. The bottom two layers were fixed to mimic the bulk, while the remaining layers, together with the adsorbates, were allowed to relax. A Γ-centered 3 × 3 × 1 MonkhorstPack k-point grid and a 12 Å vacuum layer perpendicular to the slab were used.
The thermal stability of the M1Ga2O3(100) models was examined by performing ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations at 1000 K within a canonical ensemble employing a NosHoover thermostat. The total simulation time was 10 ps with a time step of 1 fs.
2.3. Microkinetic Analysis
The CatMAP code (43) was used to perform the microkinetic analysis under the experimental conditions at 848.15 K, 0.2 bar of C3H8, and 0.16 bar of H2.
The degree of rate control (DRC) was based on the Campbells method (44,45) as implemented in the CatMAP code, which is defined as
(5)
where Xij, ri, Gj, kB, and T are the degree of rate control matrix, the production rate of product i, the free energy of species j, Boltzmanns constant, and temperature, respectively. (43)
Similarly, the degree of selectivity control (DSC) was defined as follows
(6)
where DRCi,P and DRCi,R are the degrees of rate control of species i for the rates of making P and consuming R, respectively. (44)
2.4. Catalyst Preparation
The catalysts were prepared by the sequential incipient wetness impregnation method using H2IrCl6, H2PtCl6, and Ga(NO3)3 as precursors and γ-Al2O3 as the support. The γ-Al2O3 was loaded with 5 wt% Ga and 0.07 wt% Ir or Pt in the first and second impregnation steps, respectively. After each impregnation, the resultant solid was aged at room temperature overnight, dried at 120 C for 8 h, and calcined at 620 C for 3 h.
2.5. Catalyst Characterization
N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms were measured using an ASAP 2020 HD apparatus (Micromeritics) at 196 C, after degassing at 300 C under vacuum conditions for 6 h. The multipoint BrunauerEmmettTeller (BET) analysis method is used to analyze the surface areas of catalysts in the pressure range of P/P0 = 0.050.30.
The contents of Ga, Ir/Pt of catalysts were determined using a Varian 710-ES (Varian, China) inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer (ICP-AES). The catalysts were digested in aqua regia and then diluted with deionized water for the ICP-AES analysis.
High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images were taken using a Tecnai G2 F20 S-Twin instrument (FEI) at 200 kV. The average Ir cluster diameters (dTEM) were determined on the basis of more than 150 particles in different regions of TEM images. Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping was obtained using a JEM-2100F microscope (JEOL, Japan). Before the HAADF-STEM and EDS mapping characterization, the catalyst was ultrasonically dispersed in ethanol. After dispersion, a few droplets of the suspension were deposited on copper grids covered with a holey carbon film and allowed to dry at room temperature.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed on a Thermo Scientific Escalab 250Xi spectrometer equipped with an Al Kα X-ray source. The samples were prepared on a stainless steel holder with conductive double-sided adhesive carbon tape. No further pretreatment was performed prior to characterization. The binding energy was calibrated using the C 1s peak (284.6 eV) of surface adventitious carbon.
Diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) was tested on a 100 FT-IR spectrometer (Perkin Elmer) with a liquid nitrogen-cooled mercury-cadmium-telluride (MCT) detector, equipped with an in situ Harrick Praying Mantis diffuse reflectance cell. First, the catalyst was heated up to 550 C in a nitrogen atmosphere and reduced in flowing H2 (20 mL/min) for 100 min, followed by being cooled down to 30 C in flowing Ar (20 mL/min). Then, a background spectrum was recorded. After that, the catalyst sample was exposed to pure CO (20 mL/min) at 30 C for 30 min and purged with Ar (20 mL/min) until no gas-phase CO can be detected.
2.6. Catalytic Evaluation
All of the PDH reactions were carried out in a quartz tube plug-flow reactor with an inner diameter of 6 mm (μ-BenchCAT reactor, Altamira Instrument) and 0.1 g of the catalyst was fixed in the middle of the reactor. First, the catalyst was reduced at 550 C for 100 min in flowing H2 (20 mL/min). Then, the catalyst was heated up to 575 C with a heating rate of 10 C/min under an Ar atmosphere. Next, the reaction mixture (20 kPa of propane, C3H8/H2 molar ratio of 5:4, total pressure of 1 atm with Ar as the balance gas, and total flow rate of 78 mL/min.) was fed into the reactor, and the catalyst was tested for 4 h at 575 C. The effluent gas was detected and analyzed online with a 2-channel chromatography (INFICON 3000). The molecular sieve 5A column was used to analyze H2 and CH4, while the Plot Q column was employed to detect the C2 and C3 products.
The conversion of propane (CC3H8) and selectivity toward propylene (SC3H6) were calculated as follows
(7)
(8)
where FC3H8,i, FC3H8,o, FC3H6,o, Fi,o, and ni are the flow rate of propane in the inlet; flow rate of propane, propylene, and component i (including CH4, C2H4, C2H6, and C3H6) in the outlet, and carbon number of component i, respectively.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Stabilities, Geometrical, and Electronic Structures of M1Ga2O3(100)
To determine the location of the single metal atoms dispersed on Ga2O3(100), various doping and adsorption configurations have been examined and compared. The calculated results are shown in Figure 1a with the geometries given in Figure S1. It is clear from Figure 1a that the substitution of the single metal atom for Ga(o) (o stands for octahedral) is thermodynamically most favorable for all of the elements studied, in accord with the previous experimental and theoretical studies. (19) Besides, the binding energies of single metal atoms are much more negative than the calculated cohesive energy of the respective bulk metals, indicating that the single metal atomsubstrate interaction is strong enough to inhibit aggregation. (46) Moreover, our ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations indicate that the slab surfaces do not undergo significant geometrical distortions at 1000 K and the MO bonds are well retained, as can be seen in Figures 1b and S2. In addition, a dual atom-doped surface model was established and its stability was also assessed by AIMD simulations. As can be seen in Figure S3a, two neighboring Ga(o) atoms are replaced by Ir atoms to represent the dual atom-doped surface. Upon 10 ps of simulation at 1000 K, the two doped Ir atoms would stay at their original positions rather than aggregating into a dimer (see Figure S3b), indicating that the doping of the two single metal atoms is thermodynamically stable. Thus, the M1Ga2O3(100) slab model shown in Figure 1c is finally adopted. It can be seen that three types of distinctly different atoms are exposed and located around the single metal atom on the outermost layer of M1Ga2O3(100), including octahedrally coordinated Ga(o), tetrahedrally coordinated Ga(t), and threefold coordinated O.
Figure 1
Figure 1. (a) Calculated binding energies of single-atom M and the cohesive energies of bulk M, (b) the maximum length of the four IrO bonds, energy change of the surface, and a snapshot of the geometry of Ir1Ga2O3(100) in the AIMD simulation, and (c) side and top views of M1Ga2O3(100).
Charge redistributions upon single-atom doping are analyzed and shown in Figures 2a and S4. From the figures, it can be seen that the charge redistribution is localized around the MO5 ensemble, which is further confirmed by the calculated effective Bader charge. As shown in Figure 2b, the charge carried by the O ion (qO) has a good linear scaling relation with the charge carried by the single metal ion (qM), while the charges carried by the remaining ions remain almost constant. In addition, it can be seen that the single metal atoms donate fewer electrons to the surface as we move from Ag1Ga2O3(100) through Os1Ga2O3(100) and eventually to Au1Ga2O3(100). As a consequence, the neighboring O ions become more electron-deficient, which indicates the electronic structures of the doped surfaces show periodic trends. The adsorption energies of H on top of the O ion (ΔEads,H@O) are then calculated to evaluate the O reactivity. As shown in Figure 2c, it is found that the ΔEads,H@O scales linearly with the qO with a negative slope when the doped single metal atoms are from the same period, indicating that the reactivity of the O ion is enhanced with a decreased number of electrons. This trend agrees well with the rules proposed by Metiu et al. that the low-valence doping would enhance the reactivity of the neighboring O ions. (47) Upon H adsorption at the O site, some electrons on H would be attracted by the underlying O ion and further transferred to a vacant d orbital of the adjacent M (see Figure 2d,e and Section S8 in the Supporting Information). Since the energy levels of the 3d, 4d, and 5d orbitals are different, it is not surprising to learn that different scaling relations are established for the three series, as shown in Figure 2c. Besides, it is found that the ΔEads,H@O scales linearly with the O p-band center (εp) with a negative slope (Figure 2f), in accord with the previous work. (48) Because the metal d and O 2p states are strongly hybridized, the deviation of Ga from the straight line might be attributed to the fact that the 3d orbitals of Ga are completely filled, resulting in O 2p states different from those hybridized with the d states of the doped transition metals, as can be seen in Figure S5. In addition, the Ga ion gains much less electrons than the other single metal ions upon H adsorption at the O site (see Table S1). This difference could be another reason for the distinct adsorption behavior of the pristine Ga2O3 surface. Finally, as can be seen in Table S2, the εd of Ga ion is much more negative than those of the other single metal ions, which also plays a role in the deviation of Ga from the straight line in Figure 2f. By establishing a two-variable linear regression between the O p-band center (εp) and M d-band center (εd) and ΔEads,H@O, all points could be well fitted to a straight line, as can be seen in Figure S7 in the Supporting Information.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (a) Charge density difference upon Ir doping, the linear scaling relations (b) between the effective Bader charges carried by M and by its neighboring O, (c) between the effective Bader charge carried by O and the adsorption energy of H, the density of states projected onto (d) the Ir 5d and O 2p states, (e) the Ir 5d, O 2p, and H 1s states upon H adsorption at the O site, and (f) the linear scaling relation between the O p-band center (εp) and the adsorption energy of H. Charge accumulation and depletion are colored yellow and cyan, respectively, with the isosurface value being 0.04 e/Å3.
3.2. Lewis AcidBase Interaction
The optimized geometries and the calculated adsorption energies of reactants and products are shown in Figure S8 and Table S3, respectively. As the key intermediates, H and propyl can be chemisorbed at either the M or the O site. The calculated adsorption energies of these species are shown in Figure 3a,b. It is clear from the figure that excellent linear scaling relations can be established when the species are adsorbed at the same site, which is probably due to the fact that both H and 2-propyl have one unpaired electron, resulting in similar chemical bonding between the species and surface ions. (49) In addition, H and propyl could also be coadsorbed during the PDH reaction. As can be seen in Figure 3c, the coadsorption energies of H&H and H&2-propyl at the MO site have linear scaling relations over 8 of the 14 surfaces studied, and the data have no apparent correlation on the Ni-, Pd-, Pt-, Cu-, Ag-, and Au-doped surfaces. Furthermore, it is also found that there are no direct relationships between the adsorption energies of adsorbates at different sites, as can be seen in Figure 3df. It is known that the Lewis acidbase interaction would take place when a pair of amphoteric species (e.g., H and propyl) is coadsorbed at the MO site on the irreducible oxide surfaces, (27) and the accompanying electron transfer between species would increase the coadsorption heat. (50) It is therefore interesting to figure out if the scaling relations can be affected by the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Chemisorption energy scaling relations between (a) H@M and 2-propyl@M, (b) H@O and 2-propyl@O, and (c) H&H@MO and 2-propyl&H@MO, plots of chemisorption energy of (d) H@M against H@O, (e) H&H@MO against H@O, and (f) H&H@MO against H@M, (g) calculated strength of the Lewis acidbase interaction at the MO site, and computed charge density difference for H adsorption at the O site with another H atom preadsorbed at the neighboring (h) Ir and (i) Ni sites. Charge accumulation and depletion are colored yellow and cyan, respectively, with the isosurface value being 0.04 e/Å3.
It is not surprising to learn that the Lewis acidbase interaction is present on the pristine Ga2O3(100) surface because Ga2O3 is a typical irreducible oxide, in which the Ga ions are in their most stable oxidation state of +3. Upon doping of single metal atoms, however, identifying the reducibility of the M1Ga2O3(100) surface becomes very tricky, as the oxidation state varies from one doped transition metal to the next. The presence/absence of the Lewis acidbase interaction can be determined by two steps. First, the electronic structure of the Lewis acidbase pair is examined by the Bader charge analysis, and the Lewis acidbase pair is present if the two adsorbed species are oppositely charged. The effective Bader charges carried by the coadsorbed H&H at the MO sites are calculated, and the results are summarized in Table S4. The table shows that both the two H atoms are positively charged on the Cu-, Ag-, and Au-doped surfaces, implying that the Lewis acidbase pair is absent and, thus, the interaction cannot occur on these surfaces. Then, the Lewis acidbase interaction energy ΔEint,acidbase is calculated on the surfaces where the Lewis acidbase pair is present (see Section S15 in the Supporting Information for details), and the negative and positive values of the ΔEint,acidbase indicate the presence and absence of the Lewis acidbase interaction, respectively. As can be seen in Figure 3g, the ΔEint,acidbase is positive on the Ni-, Pd-, and Pt-doped surfaces, indicating that the Lewis acidbase interaction does not occur. Moreover, the electron transfer upon coadsorption of H&H is visualized by charge density differences shown in Figures 3hi and S10, which indicate that no apparent electron transfer takes place between the coadsorbed H and H, and hence no Lewis acidbase interaction occurs on the Ni-, Pd-, Pt-, Cu-, Ag-, and Au-doped surfaces. By contrast, an apparent charge accumulation around the H adsorbed at the M site can be observed on the other surfaces. The possible explanation for the absence of the Lewis acidbase interaction on the Ni-, Pd-, Pt-, Cu-, Ag-, and Au-doped surfaces could be that the O ions adjacent to the single metal ions are too electron-deficient, which limits the ability of these O ions to transfer electrons to the adsorbates on top of the M site (see Figures S5 and S11, Section S17 in the Supporting Information for details). According to the data shown in Figure 3c, it is apparent that the coadsorption energy scaling relations can only hold when the Lewis acidbase interaction occurs.
3.3. Energetics of PDH on M1Ga2O3(100)
The main reaction of PDH consists of two successive dehydrogenation steps of propane to produce propylene and the recombination of H atoms to form H2. Because the first CH bond activation of propane can occur at either the methyl or the methylene group, producing 1-propyl and 2-propyl, respectively, both of the two paths are studied at the MO sites with the energy barriers given in Figure 4a. It is clear from the figure that the energy barriers for forming 2-propyl are lower than those for producing 1-propyl. Thus, 2-propyl is thought of as one of the key intermediates in the following. Since the electronic structures of the Ga(o) and O ion pair that are the nearest neighbors of M are different from those on the pristine surface, the reactivity of these sites toward CH bond cleavage must be different as well. Thus, the energy barriers for the first dehydrogenation step of propane at the MO and their nearest Ga(o)O sites are compared in Figure 4b, which shows that the energy barriers are lower at the MO sites than at the Ga(o)O site on the respective surfaces. For this reason, the PDH reactions occurring at the MO sites are focused hereafter.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Comparison of the energy barrier for the first dehydrogenation step of propane to form (a) 1-propyl and 2-propyl at the MO site, and (b) 2-propyl at the MO and Ga(o)O sites, the geometries of the transition states for the (cd) first and (ef) second dehydrogenation steps, and the energy profiles for the main reaction of PDH via the formation of 2-propyl on the surfaces where the Lewis acidbase interaction is (g) present and (h) absent. All of the potential energies are referenced to the sum of the total energies of the gas-phase propane and bare surface.
The geometries of the transition states for the two dehydrogenation steps of propane are shown in Figure 4cf, from which it can be seen that there are two types of transition state structures for both the first and second dehydrogenation steps of propane (TS1 and TS2). In Figure 4c, 2-propyl and H are bonded to the M and O sites, respectively, which closely resembles the final state (the coadsorbed 2-propyl&H), giving an indication of a late transition state, and this is the case on the majority of the surfaces. By contrast, Figure 4d shows a radical-like structure, which is observed only on the Cu-, Ag-, and Au-doped surfaces. As for the TS2, the geometry involves the M and O ion pair on the 4d/5d metal-doped surfaces (see Figure 4e), while the radical-like structure shown in Figure 4f is only observed on the 3d metal-doped surfaces, which resembles chemisorbed H at the O site with physisorbed propylene. These two types of transition state structures have also been observed on the pristine and alkali-metal-doped alkaline metal oxides in methane activation. (51) It is worth noting that the structure types of TS1 and TS2 are not necessarily the same over any doped surfaces of interest.
Due to the diversity of the transition state structures over M1Ga2O3(100), it is hard to classify the surfaces from a geometrical perspective. However, according to the electronic structures, the surfaces can be categorized into two groups according to the Lewis acidbase interaction. The energy profiles for PDH over the surfaces with and without the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction are shown in Figure 4g,h, respectively. The abstracted H atoms are assumed to be able to diffuse quickly, infinitely far away from the remaining C3 species, which is supported by the fact that all of the calculated H diffusion barriers fall in the range of 0.51.1 eV, as shown in Figure S12. From Figure 4g,h, it can be seen that even within each group of the surfaces, the pattern of the energy profile could be rather different. For example, the energy profiles on Ga2O3(100) and Au1Ga2O3(100) are quite downhill, whereas on Ir1Ga2O3(100) and Cu1Ga2O3(100), the profiles are uphill, implying that the catalytic behavior of those surfaces toward PDH could differ greatly.
3.4. Identification of Descriptors
The activity map is usually plotted to study the trends in catalysis, in which the descriptor(s) employed is/are identified based on the chemisorption energy and transition state energy scaling relations. (52) However, due to the high site heterogeneity of the doped oxide surface and the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction, it is very likely that identifying the descriptor(s) that describe the kinetics of all of the catalyst surfaces of interest is technically unfeasible. On the other hand, the recently proposed degree of rate control (DRC) suggests that there are some key species in the kinetic model whose relative energies would most strongly influence the net reaction rate. (44,45) Hence, establishing scaling relations between the energies of simple adsorbed species and rate-controlling transition states/intermediates provides a way of identifying descriptor(s).
The calculated DRC of species/transition states involved in a simplified reaction network for PDH (Table S5) is summarized in Table 1. From the table, one can see that on the majority of the surfaces, the absolute values of XCH3CHHCH3* are the largest, indicating that the first dehydrogenation step of propane is rate-limiting. On the Ru-, Rh-, Os-, and Ir-doped surfaces, however, the XCH3CHCH2H* has the largest absolute values, implying that the rate-determining step becomes the second dehydrogenation step, which is also reflected in Figure 4g that the relative energies of TS2 are much higher than TS1 on these surfaces. Moreover, it is interesting to find that the absolute values of XH* are the largest on the Ni-, Cu-, and Ag-doped surfaces, making H* the rate-controlling intermediate. Moreover, the negative values of XH* suggest a negative impact of enhancing H adsorption on the overall PDH reaction rate.
Table 1. Calculated DRC of Intermediates and Transition States
    intermediate transition state
surface Lewis acidbase interaction XCH3CHCH2* XCH3CHCH3&H* XCH3CHCH3* XH&H* XH* XCH3CHHCH3* XCH3CHCH2H* XHH*
Ga2O3(100) present 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00
Mn present 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.99 0.01 0.00
Fe present 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.99 0.00 0.00
Co present 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.65 0.97 0.03 0.00
Ni absent 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.02 0.95 0.05 0.00
Cu absent 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.00 1.00 0.00
Ru present 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.39 0.61 0.00
Rh present 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.73 0.27 0.00
Pd absent 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.11 1.00 0.00 0.00
Ag absent 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.00 1.00 0.00
Os present 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.47 0.52 0.00
Ir present 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.18 0.82 0.00
Pt absent 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00
Au absent 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.98 0.01 0.01
Having identified the rate-limiting transition state/intermediate, we are now in a position to establish the relations between their formation energies and the formation energies of simple adsorbed species, i.e., to identify the descriptor that can describe the energies of the adsorbed species in the kinetic model. The details of the formation energy approach used can be found in Section S20 in the Supporting Information. Since the Lewis acidbase interaction is found to determine whether or not the coadsorption energy scaling relation at the MO site can be established, and because both the TS1 and TS2 involve the MO site, the surfaces are categorized into two groups according to the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction.
When the Lewis acidbase interaction is absent, the rate-controlling transition state/intermediate is TS1*/H*. Because the ETS1 has a good linear scaling relation with the formation energy of H adsorption on top of O (EH@O) (see Figure 5a), the EH@O can be used as the descriptor. The scaling relation between ETS1 and EH@O might be attributed to the following two reasons. On the one hand, the TS1 has a radical-like structure (see Figure 4d) on the Cu-, Ag-, and Au-doped surfaces, which results in a minor interaction between the 2-propyl and the surface due to London dispersion forces. On the other hand, the charge carried by the 2-propyl in TS1 stays nearly constant at zero on the Ni-, Pd-, and Pt-doped surfaces due to the absence of the Lewis acidbase interaction, as shown in Table S6, making H the dominating species in transferring electrons to the surface, and hence in determining the energy change of the activated complex.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) Calculated ETS1 as a function of EH@O, calculated (b) ETS1 and (c) ETS2 as a function of EH&H@MO, volcano plot of the logarithm of TOF for PDH at 848.15 K, 0.2 bar of C3H8, and 0.16 bar of H2 as a function of (d) EH@O, (e) EH&H@MO, and (f) EH@O/EH&H@MO.
When the Lewis acidbase interaction is present on the surface, however, the rate-limiting transition state is either TS1* or TS2*, where the formation energy of TS1/TS2 (ETS1/ETS2) scales linearly with the formation energy of H&H coadsorption at the MO site (EH&H@MO), as shown in Figure 5b,c, indicating that EH&H@MO can be used as the descriptor, which is due to the fact that the coadsorption energy scaling relations can only hold when the Lewis acidbase interaction occurs. Moreover, it is found that linear scaling relations can also be established between the formation energy of coadsorbed 2-propyl&H at the MO site (E2-propyl&H@MO) and the formation energy of TS1/TS2 (ETS1/ETS2), as can be seen in Figure S13, owing to the fact that the variations in the energies of adsorbed species and activated complexes are governed essentially by the same basic physics. It is important to note that when the Lewis acidbase interaction is present on the surfaces, the EH&H@MO scales linearly with the E2-propyl&H@MO because of the similar electronic structures of the coadsorption configurations (Figure 3f). Therefore, both the E2-propyl&H@MO and the EH&H@MO can be used to describe the kinetics. Since simpler adsorbed species is preferred during the course of catalyst screening, the EH&H@MO is finally adopted as one of the descriptors in this work.
3.5. Optimal Catalysts
The logarithms of TOF for PDH as a function of the descriptors are then plotted for the surfaces where the Lewis acidbase interaction is absent and present in Figure 5d,e, respectively, and the plots with deviations can be found in Figure S14 in the Supporting Information. As can be seen from Figure 5d that when the Lewis acidbase interaction is absent and the EH@O is the descriptor, the TOF for PDH first increases and then decreases with increasing the binding strength of H to the O ion, which agrees well with the DRC analysis that too strong H bonding makes the adsorbed H the rate-controlling intermediate, resulting in a negative effect on the PDH rate over the Ni-, Cu-, and Ag-doped surfaces. Besides, according to the calculated coverages of species (Table S7), almost all of the sites on the Ni-, Cu-, and Ag-doped surfaces are occupied by H, while on the other surfaces, the vast majority of the active sites are available, which further explains why H* could control the overall rate and why the TOFs are decreased although the H bonding is strengthened on the Ni-, Cu-, and Ag-doped surfaces.
By comparison, when the Lewis acidbase interaction occurs, the EH&H@MO becomes the descriptor and the PDH rate increases as H&H is bound more tightly at the MO site, causing the Ir-doped surface to show the best catalytic activity (Figure 5e). As can be seen in Table S7, there are plenty of free sites available on these surfaces, which implies that the active sites are far from poisoned and explains why the calculated TOF increases as the EH&H@MO becomes more negative. In reality, it seems very likely that the straight line could be the right leg of another volcano plot, which means if the bonding of H&H can be further strengthened, the TOF may be increased to a maximum value and then decreases due to the blockage of active sites.
The two plots are compared directly in Figure 5f, which shows that the inherent constraint of the volcano curve is broken through by the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction, resulting in higher activities of the Os-, Ru-, Rh-, and Ir-doped surfaces than that of the summit of the volcano plotted for the surfaces without Lewis acidbase interactions. This result originates from the unique electronic structures of the single-atom-doped Ga2O3 catalysts, where the coadsorption of amphoteric species at the MO site can be strengthened by electron transfer between the species in the presence of Lewis acidbase interactions, which results in different coadsorption scaling relations, and hence different descriptors and volcano plots.
Previously, Sattler et al. reported that the addition of 1000 ppm of Pt would enhance the activity of the Ga2O3 catalyst. (19) As can be seen in our work, Pt1Ga2O3 is among the surfaces without the presence of Lewis acidbase interactions, where the activity is inherently constrained. In the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction, other single-metal-doped surfaces, particularly the Ir-doped surface, are predicted to show better catalytic activity than Pt1Ga2O3. It is therefore of great interest to study the stability and the propylene selectivity of these catalysts.
The plot of the Ea for H2 and H2O formation is shown in Figure 6a. It can be seen from the figure that the Ea for H2O formation is higher than that for H2 formation, except on the Pd-, Cu-, and Au-doped surfaces, implying that the desorption of H2 is kinetically preferred over the production of H2O. It is important to note that upon Ir doping, the Ea for H2O formation is slightly higher than that on the pristine surface, indicating that the resistance of Ga2O3 to hydrogen reduction is further strengthened.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (a) Plot of the energy barriers for forming H2 and forming H2O, (b) energy barrier differences between propylene dehydrogenation and desorption, and (c) energy barriers for the dehydrogenation and hydrogenation of 2-propenyl.
As for the selectivity toward propylene, the activation energy difference between propylene dehydrogenation and desorption [Ea(deh)Ea(des)] was suggested as a measure in the previous studies and a more positive value means a higher selectivity. (53) In addition, it was found that the dehydrogenation of propenyl should also be taken into consideration on the Ga2O3 catalysts because the side reactions may be inhibited if this elementary step has a high energy barrier. (22) Therefore, both the two aspects are studied, and the results are summarized in Figure 6b,c. It can be seen from Figure 6b that the Ea(deh)Ea(des) is positive on all of the surfaces, indicating that propylene can be released from the surfaces rather than undergoing deep dehydrogenation. On the other hand, the energy barriers for the subsequent 2-propenyl dehydrogenation are all higher on the doped surfaces than that without doping, as shown in Figure 6c. In particular, the value is increased significantly to 2.23 eV upon Ir doping, while the energy barrier for the 2-propenyl hydrogenation is only increased to 0.92 eV, which implies that 2-propenyl prefers hydrogenation to produce propylene rather than dehydrogenation to form propyne.
Furthermore, the selectivity toward propylene over the Ir1Ga2O3 catalyst is evaluated using a larger reaction network, including by-products of propyne, ethane, ethylene, and methane, as shown in Table S8, in which propyne was thought of as the starting point for the CC bond cleavage. (53,54) The TOF for each elementary reaction is shown in Table S8, from which the selectivity toward propylene is calculated to be 99%. The calculated degree of selectivity control (DSC) is summarized in Table S9, which shows that the selectivity toward propyne is controlled by the TS of 2-propenyl dehydrogenation and demonstrates that the TS energy of 2-propenyl dehydrogenation should be taken into consideration besides the Ea(deh)Ea(des) when analyzing selectivity. The selectivity toward ethane and methane are controlled by the TS of 2-propenyl dehydrogenation and CC bond cleavage of propyne jointly, which is not surprising because the CC bond breaking is the necessary step in generating the C1/C2 species and the high energy barriers for forming propyne (2.32 eV) and for the subsequent CC bond cleavage (3.80 eV) preventing the production of ethane and methane. The selectivity for ethylene is controlled by one more factor, i.e., the TS energy for ethylidene (CH3CH) dehydrogenation to form vinyl (CH2CH). The explanation is probably that the CH3CH dehydrogenation and hydrogenation are competitive reactions, which eventually produce ethylene and ethane, respectively. Thus, the high energy barrier for the CH3CH dehydrogenation (2.16 eV) could control the selectivity toward ethylene. In light of the information given above, it is not hard to learn that Ir1Ga2O3 is a good catalyst candidate for PDH with enhanced activity, selectivity, and stability, which is even more effective than the previously reported trace-PtGa2O3.
3.6. Experimental Verification
To verify our theoretical prediction experimentally, a series of γ-Al2O3-supported IrGa2O3 and PtGa2O3 catalysts were prepared, and their physicochemical properties are summarized in Table S10. From the table, it can be seen that the synthesized catalysts have similar structural properties (BET area, pore volume, and pore size). The contents of Ga in various catalysts determined using an inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer (ICP-AES) are close to the theoretical value of 5 wt %, while the loadings of Ir and Pt are equal to 0.07 wt %. Since the atomic mass of Ir and Pt is very close, it could be deduced that the number of metal atoms deposited on the catalysts is virtually the same.
The catalytic performances of the samples are shown in Figure 7. From the figure, it can be seen that the propane conversion on 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 is ca. 12% initially and only shows neglectable change after 4 h, while the selectivity toward propylene maintains at 99% when the reaction reaches the steady state, in great accord with that calculated using microkinetic analysis. By comparison, the propane conversion over 0.07% PtGa2O3/Al2O3 decreases rapidly from 12% to 8%, while the selectivity toward propylene is lower than that on 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3. Without the deposition of Ir, the conversion is dropped more than half at the steady state, while the conversion drops even more greatly without the addition of Ga2O3. Besides, the selectivity of the catalysts containing only Ga2O3 or Ir is lower than that of 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3. These results clearly indicate that the catalytic behavior of the 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalyst is much better than the previously reported trace-Pt-promoted Ga2O3 catalyst. (19) To figure out whether the enhanced catalytic performance of 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 originates from the single-Ir-atom doping on Ga2O3, the catalysts that contain subnanometer Ir clusters and Ir nanoparticles were prepared by increasing the Ir loading to 2%, (55) which were tested and compared with the 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalyst, as shown in Figure S15. It is found that the initial activity could be markedly enhanced by increasing the Ir loading, implying that Ir serves as the active site rather than a promoter in the PDH reaction. However, the 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalyst deactivates rapidly and would become less active than 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 at the end of the reaction. Besides, the selectivity toward propylene decreases with increasing the Ir loading, which is probably due to the fact that more multiple IrIr sites for the CC bond-breaking reactions would be provided on the high Ir-loading catalysts, (56) giving rise to the formation of more side products.
Figure 7
Figure 7. (a) Propane conversion and (b) propylene selectivity of catalysts.
To shed light on the structure of the samples, the as-prepared 0.07 and 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalysts were carefully characterized. The results of the high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping, Ir 4f XPS, and CO diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) are shown in Figure 8. The HAADF-STEM image (Figure 8a,b) indicates that Ir is homogeneously and highly dispersed at an atomic level without the formation of nanoparticles on the 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalyst, while Ir particles can be apparently observed with an average diameter of 1.4 nm over 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3. The high dispersion of Ga and Ir over the 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalyst can be further confirmed by the EDS mapping (Figure 8c), where the Ga and Ir elements are uniformly and closely distributed. As shown in Figure 8d, when Ir is dispersed atomically on 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3, the bands at 2072 and 1993 cm1 can be caused by the linear-bonded CO on single Irδ+ and Ir0 atoms, respectively. No peaks arising from the bridge-bonded CO are detected, which further indicates that the vast majority of Ir is atomically distributed. (57) As for the 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalyst, a strong band at 2072 cm1 is observed, associated with a weak shoulder at 1993 cm1, which can be attributed to the linear-bonded CO on top of metallic Ir surfaces. In addition, the band at 1741 cm1 is due to the bridge-bonded CO over Ir crystals. (58) The above information provides convincing evidence that the 0.07 and 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalysts are dominated by singly dispersed Ir atoms and Ir metallic crystallite, respectively.
Figure 8
Figure 8. (a) HAADF-STEM images of the fresh (a) 0.07 and (b) 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 catalysts, (c) EDS mapping of 0.07% IrGa2O3/Al2O3 (d) DRIFTS of CO adsorption on 0.07 and 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3, and (e) XPS spectra of Ir 4f for 0.07 and 2% IrGa2O3/Al2O3.
XPS spectra of the catalysts were collected to investigate the specific nature of the Ga and Ir species. As shown in Figure S16, the Ga 3d (20.7 eV) signals correspond to Ga3+, and no evidence of Ga1+ (19.1 eV) or metallic Ga0 (18.5 eV) is observed on the catalysts, indicating that only Ga3+ is present. The Ir 4f spectrum (Figure 8e) can be fitted into two sets of doublets centered at 65.1 and 62.1 eV and 64.2 and 61.2 eV, which arise from Ir4+ and Ir0, respectively. (57,59) The relationship between the formal oxidation state of Ir and the calculated effective Bader charge (see Figure S17) shows that the observed Ir4+ and Ir0 arise from single-Ir-atom doping at the Ga(o) sites [Ir@Ga(o)] and the Ir adsorption on the pristine surface (Ir-ads), respectively. To further determine whether the Ir@Ga(o) or the Ir-ads makes a major contribution to the catalytic performance, the activity of the Ir-ads was evaluated and compared with that of the Ir@Ga(o). As shown in Figure S18, the Gibbs free energy barrier for the first dehydrogenation step of propane over the Ir-ads is much higher than that of the Ir@Ga(o). Further calculated TOFs through microkinetic analysis show that the PDH reaction would occur nearly 157 times more slowly on the Ir-ads than on the Ir@Ga(o) (Figure S19), implying that the Ir@Ga(o) dominates the kinetics of the overall reaction. Therefore, given the information above, the significantly improved catalytic performance of the Ir1Ga2O3 catalyst can be attributed to single-Ir-atom doping at the Ga(o) sites, indicating that our theoretical work could provide a useful guideline for the rational design of metal-oxide catalysts for the PDH process.
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this contribution, DFT calculations, microkinetic analysis, and experiments have been combined to design promising single-atom-doped Ga2O3 catalysts for PDH. A group of transition metals (Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Os, Ir, Pt, and Au) is substituted for Ga(o) on the outermost layer of the Ga2O3 surface, where a strong interaction between them and their neighboring O ions ensures that the metals can be atomically dispersed.
Upon doping the Ga2O3(100) surface with single metal atoms, the electronic structure is locally modified around the MO5 ensemble, which results in the different adsorption properties of the M1Ga2O3 catalyst. By analyzing the rate-controlling transition state/intermediate on the Ni-, Pd-, Pt-, Cu-, Ag-, and Au-doped surfaces, the formation energy of the H adsorption on top of O is identified as the reactivity descriptor. On the Mn-, Fe-, Ru-, Os-, Co-, Rh-, and Ir-doped surfaces, however, the coadsorption of a pair of amphoteric species at the MO site can be strengthened by the electron transfer between the two adsorbed species, leading to distinctly different scaling relations. As a result, the formation energy of the H&H coadsorption at the MO site scales linearly with the energetics of PDH in the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction and thus determines the kinetics on these catalysts.
The rate of consumption of propane is then plotted as a function of each of the two descriptors, which indicate that the inherent constraint of the volcano plot can be broken through by the presence of the Lewis acidbase interaction, leading Ir1Ga2O3 to the optimal catalyst. Further experiments verify that the Ir1Ga2O3 candidate is more effective than the previously reported trace-Pt-promoted Ga2O3 catalyst, and the significantly improved catalytic performance is attributed to single-Ir-atom doping at the Ga(o) sites. The results reported here thus provide new guidelines for the rational design of metal-oxide catalysts for the PDH reaction.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 