I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


LewisBrnsted Acid Pairs in Ga/H-ZSM-5 To Catalyze Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes
Abstract
The active sites for propane dehydrogenation in Ga/H-ZSM-5 with moderate concentrations of tetrahedral aluminum in the lattice were identified to be LewisBrnsted acid pairs. With increasing availability, Ga+ and Brnsted acid site concentrations changed inversely, as protons of Brnsted acid sites were exchanged with Ga+. At a Ga/Al ratio of 1/2, the rate of propane dehydrogenation was 2 orders of magnitude higher than with the parent H-ZSM-5, highlighting the extraordinary activity of the LewisBrnsted acid pairs. Density functional theory calculations relate the high activity to a bifunctional mechanism that proceeds via heterolytic activation of the propane CH bond followed by a monomolecular elimination of H2 and desorption of propene.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The increasing availability of propane from shale gas together with the worldwide increase in propene demand has spurred interest in on-purpose production of propene via dehydrogenation. (1) While being catalyzed with higher energy of activation compared to monomolecular cracking, (2,3) dehydrogenation is also catalyzed by Brnsted acids via hydronium ions (26) as well as by Lewis acid sites, such as Ga, Zn, and La. Especially, the combination of Brnsted and Lewis acids in the zeolite micropore channels was observed to be active for propane dehydrogenation. (79) Gallium modified H-ZMS-5 has been used commercially for the aromatization of light alkanes. (10) However, the nature of the active sites in these Ga exchanged zeolites catalysts and the mechanism of dehydrogenation is still discussed controversially. (7,9,1116) While the present contribution will not address comprehensively the aspects to resolve all open points, a homotopic catalyst with unprecedented activity for dehydration is reported.
Under reductive atmosphere and high temperature, monovalent Ga+ cations can be formed and exchanged for the protons of zeolite Brnsted acid sites. (11,12) However, besides Ga+, other cations such as [GaH2]+, [GaO]+, [GaOH]+, and [HGaOH]+ as well as Ga2O3 appear to exist as active sites for propane dehydrogenation. (7,9,1114) A synergistic interaction between Lewis acidic Ga species and Brnsted acid SiOHAl sites has been indirectly reported, as catalysts containing both exhibit a rate of propane dehydrogenation, which is higher than the additive contributions of Ga and Brnsted acid sites. (7,9,15,16) The atomistic nature of these sites has not been unequivocally resolved.
In principle, two mechanisms have been proposed for the dehydrogenation of propane on Ga and H-ZSM-5. According to the first mechanism, alkanes are dehydrogenated via carbonium ion intermediates or transition states at the Brnsted acid sites and the Lewis acidic Ga species facilitates the recombinative desorption of H2. (9) Alternatively, the alkane CH bond has been proposed to be polarized on Ga2O3, facilitating the formation of carbonium ions on Brnsted acid sites. (16) According to the other mechanism, the dehydrogenation proceeds via an initial abstraction of a hydride by a Ga cation (7) or by Ga2O3 (15) generating transiently a carbenium ion. The abstracted H and H+ of the Brnsted acid site recombine, forming H2 and an alkoxy group.
In order to resolve these discrepancies, the synergy of LewisBrnsted acid pairs in a series of well-defined Ga/H-ZSM-5 zeolite was examined for the dehydrogenation of propane and butane. The nature and concentration of the active site were determined in situ via X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XANES), temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) and infrared (IR) spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine. The nature and stoichiometry of the sites required for the synergetic interaction of Ga and Brnsted acid sites was elucidated, and a mechanism for the dehydrogenation is proposed, supported by physicochemical characterization, kinetic experiments, and density functional theory (DFT) calculations.
2. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Influence of the Ga on the Reaction Kinetics
Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts with Ga/Al ratios in the range of 1/9 to 3/2 were studied in order to investigate the influence of the Ga/Al ratio on the reaction kinetics in propane dehydrogenation. A strong influence of the reaction rate on the Ga/Al ratio was observed, with a maximum in propane conversion at a Ga/Al ratio of 1/2 (Figure 1, Table S2). The maximum reaction rate on Ga/H-ZSM-5 (for Ga/Al = 1/2) was 2 orders of magnitude higher than for H-ZSM-5 (15.907 and 0.114 × 107 mol·(g·s)1, 783 K), which is substantially higher than those reported previously. (7) The higher rate enhancement observed is attributed to a highly ordered structure in the present case compared to similar studies in the literature.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Overall, protolytic cracking and dehydrogenation rate as a function of Ga/Al ratio of the catalysts (Reaction temperature 783 K, propane partial pressure 8.75 mbar).
The contributions of protolytic cracking and dehydrogenation to the overall rate are shown in (Figure 1). The reaction rates of cracking and dehydrogenation on parent H-ZSM-5 match with the values reported in literature. (2,4,6) The reaction rate of dehydrogenation follows the same trend as the total rate, with a maximum in reaction rate at a Ga/Al ratio of 1/2, increasing its selectivity from 22% (H-ZSM-5) to 89% (1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5) at conversions less than 3.2% (Table S3). The dehydrogenation rate increased by more than 2 orders of magnitude (350) with the best Ga modified H-ZSM-5 compared to the parent H-ZSM-5 (15.12 and 0.044 × 107 mol·(g · s)1, 783 K). Protolytic cracking followed a similar trend as dehydrogenation, reaching a maximum at Ga/Al ratio of 1/2, with very little or no protolytic cracking being observed for Ga/Al  1, decreasing its selectivity from 35% (H-ZSM-5) to less than 3%. The decline in the protolytic cracking rate is in line with the decrease in the Brnsted acid sites (BAS) concentration as the Ga/Al ratio increased. The reaction rate ratio of dehydrogenation/cracking on H-ZSM-5 was 0.63 (783 K), while on 1/2 Ga/Al the ratio was 19 (Table 1), highlighting the increase of the dehydrogenation over the cracking rate on Ga modified H-ZSM-5 compared to parent H-ZSM-5. To compare the marked contribution of the Ga species, a Ga2O3/SiO2 catalyst was studied, which showed only activity for dehydrogenation (0.13 × 107 mol·(g·s)1, 783 K), while protolytic cracking was not observed.
Comparable differences in the rates were observed for the dehydrogenation of butane between the most active catalyst (Ga/Al ratio of 1/2 on parent H-ZSM-5) and the parent H-ZSM-5 (Table 1). The dehydrogenation rate at 783 K increased by a factor of 21 on 1/2 Ga/Al compared to H-ZSM-5 for butane (3.8 and 0.18 × 107 mol·(g·s)1, 783 K). Note that these rates of butane dehydrogenation on the parent H-ZSM-5 are in line with prior results in literature. (2,5,17)
Table 1. Reaction Rates of Alkane Dehydrogenation and Cracking on Brnsted Acid and LewisBrnsted Acid Pairs 783 K (Rates × 107 mol·(g·s)1)a
  H-ZSM-5 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5
alkane overall dehydro. cracking D/C overall dehydro. cracking D/C
propane 0.114 0.044 0.070 0.63 15.907 15.120 0.787 19.20
n-butane 0.824 0.175 0.649 0.27 4.764 3.672 1.092 3.41
aThe following abbreviations have been made: overall, dehydrogenation (dehydro.), cracking, and dehydrogenation/cracking (D/C).
In order to study the influence of the Ga/Al ratio on the contribution of active sites to rate of dehydrogenation the reaction rate had to be separated into contributions of Ga sites and BAS catalyzed reactions, requiring the quantification of the proposed active sites as well as the determination of their atomistic structure.
2.2. Nature and Concentration of Active Sites
The concentration of acid sites was determined by IR spectra of adsorbed pyridine after reduction in H2. In situ reduction was critical, as a fast oxidation of cationic Ga species was observed upon contact with traces of water (e.g., in ambient air), reestablishing protons on BAS and GaxOy clusters under formation of molecular H2 (Figure S2). In line with these observations, the Brnsted acid site concentration decreased only to a small extent for Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts without in situ reduction; with 1/2 Ga/Al-ZSM-5 20% of the BAS were converted to LAS, for 3/2 Ga/Al the fraction increased to 25%.
The presence of three different types of acid sites was shown by IR spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine. One type of Brnsted acid sites and two types of Lewis acid sites with bands at 1555 cm1 (protonated pyridinium ion, BAS) as well as 1457 and 1446 cm1 (coordinatively adsorbed pyridine, Ga+ and GaxOy) respectively, were distinguished (Figure S3). It should be noted in passing that the 1455 cm1 band of coordinative adsorbed pyridine corresponds to strong LAS (such as highly accessible Al3+, Ga3+, or Ga+ sites), while the band at 1446 cm1 is characteristic of weak or sterically shielded LAS.
The Brnsted acid site concentration after in situ reduction decreased linearly with increasing Ga concentration (Figure 2). The direct compensation of the decrease in the concentration of BAS by Ga sites (for catalysts with Ga/Al  1) strongly suggests the exchange of the protons of the SiOHAl groups by a monovalent cationic Ga+ species with a stoichiometry of Ga/H+ = 1:1. The decrease in Brnsted acid site concentration, measured by adsorbed pyridine, agrees well with the decrease of the OH stretching vibration of the Brnsted acid sites (3616 cm1). For Ga/Al ratios > 1/2, a second Ga species was observed, which does not substitute for protons of BAS. The lower wavenumber of this LAS (1446 cm1) points to a site that acts as considerably weaker LAS toward pyridine. As the total concentration of acid sites did not linearly increase with the Ga loading for samples with Ga/Al ratios > 1/2, the formation of GaxOy clusters in which not all Ga atoms are accessible for pyridine is hypothesized.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Concentrations of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites of catalysts as a function of the Ga/Al ratio.
The oxidation state of the cationic Ga species was studied by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (Figure 3). During in situ reduction (temperature raised from 293 to 873 K in H2 flow) of unreduced 1/2 Ga/Al the Ga K-edge shifted from 10374.3 to 10370.2 eV (Figure 3). To assign these shifts to the oxidation state, Ga(III)Cl3 and Ga(I)Ga(III)Cl4 were used as references for Ga3+ (10373.5 eV) and Ga+ (10369.9 eV) species. Thus, these changes observed in the XANES during in situ reduction suggest a change in the oxidation state of Ga. However, a distinction between Ga+ and specially coordinated Ga3+ such as [GaH2]+ needs to be taken into account, as charge donation of H2 to Ga3+ would lead to an electronic structure similar to Ga+. (14) Therefore, the XANES cannot discern unequivocally between Ga+ and [GaH2]+ (14) and further analysis of this site is discussed below. For the Ga2O3/SiO2 catalysts, the edge did not change significantly during in situ reduction (Figure S4), indicating that the majority of Ga2O3 was not reduced on SiO2. These findings agree well with the results from IR spectra of adsorbed pyridine, suggesting the existence of two Ga species. We hypothesize that the Ga giving rise to the white line peak at 10370.2 eV is related to a strong LAS, presumably Ga+ substituting the H+ of the bridging hydroxyl group. In consequence, the white line at 10374.3 eV is attributed to Ga3+ in a more aggregated environment as GaxOy clusters.
Figure 3
Figure 3. (A) Change of edge energy of Ga species during reduction of 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 and (B) comparison of edge energy of 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 during reaction with Ga1+ reference.
To further differentiate between Ga+ and [GaH2]+ the stoichiometry of H2 consumption and H2O formation during reduction of 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5, containing only Ga species substituting for protons, was followed (Figure S7). The catalyst was initially calcined in order to ensure that all Ga species are in nonhydroxylated Ga3+ state and subsequently reduced in H2. The catalyst reduction resulted in a H2 consumption of H2, consumed/Ga2O3 = 2:1 and H2O formation leading to a ratio of H2, consumed/H2Oformed = 2:3. The potential reactions of Ga2O3 with H2 to form reduced Ga species are summarized in Figure 4. Combining the specific consumption of H2 and its ratio to the concentration of H2O formed (Figure 5), allows us to conclude that after reduction at high temperatures Ga+ was selectively formed. A ratio of H2, consumed/H2Oformed = 2:3 was also observed for 1/3 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 (Figure S5), while a lower ratio was observed for 3/4 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5, suggesting some of the Ga species had not been reduced. Thus, we also conclude that the band of coordinatively adsorbed pyridine at 1457 cm1 and the white line at 10370.2 eV are characteristic of the existence of Ga+ in a homotopic site.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Plausible potential reactions of H2 with Ga2O3.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Consumption of H2 as a function of H2O formation during the pulsed TPR of the 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalyst.
The synergy observed with 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 is hypothesized to be caused by the presence of one Ga+ in two neighboring exchange sites, i.e., Ga+ is located in the vicinity of a BAS. The H-ZSM-5 used in this work contains 31% of the BAS sites in pairs. It is hypothesized the proton exchange by a monovalent cationic Ga+ on one of these BAS pairs leads to a LewisBrnsted acid pair site with high activity. Therefore, based on the highest catalytic activity, we hypothesized that in the 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 sample 47 μmol/g LewisBrnsted acid pairs exist. The estimated lower limit of the TOF for such paired sites is 3.26 × 102 s1.
Some of the exchange sites will not have another BAS in proximity, resulting in Ga+ exchanged for a proton of an isolated SiOHAl site, which will lead to significantly lower catalytic activity. Such low activity was, for example, observed for the majority of sites in the 1 Ga/Al H-ZSM-5 sample.
For a statistical distribution of Ga+ exchange between paired and isolated sites, the 1/3 Ga/Al H-ZSM-5 should have a proportionally lower concentration of such sites. The observed lower activity suggests that in the 1/3 Ga/Al H-ZSM-5 sample, the exchange of Ga+ to isolated SiOHAl sites was dominating, leading to only 9 μmol/g of LewisBrnsted acid pairs, if the turnover frequency of paired sites in 1/2 Ga/Al H-ZSM-5 is used as a scaling factor.
This was contrasted by the equally lower than expected rate for 3/4 Ga/Al H-ZSM-5. In this case, activity commensurate with only 4 μmol/g of LewisBrnsted acid pairs (instead of 24 μmol/g for a statistical exchange) was observed. We hypothesize at present that GaxOy clusters formed in this sample block the largest fraction of the paired sites.
2.3. Mechanism of Propane Dehydrogenation on LewisBrnsted Acid Pairs
The maximum in dehydrogenation rate was observed at the catalyst with a Ga/Al ratio of 1/2, for which Ga+ and Brnsted acid sites are present in equal concentrations. The observed reaction rate was about 50 times higher than the reaction rate expected for additive contributions of Ga2O3 and Brnsted acid sites only, pointing to the synergy between Ga+ and Brnsted acid sites. Comparing turnover frequencies of these LewisBrnsted acid pairs (1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5) to isolated Brnsted acid sites (H-ZSM-5) and to active sites on Ga2O3 (Ga2O3/SiO2) shows that the LewisBrnsted acid pairs are by far the most active sites (Table 2).
Table 2. Turnover Frequencies of Propane Dehydrogenation on Brnsted Acid Sites, LewisBrnsted Acid Pair,s and Ga2O3 783 K (Rates × 104 [molpropane·(molactive site·s)1])
active site SiOHAl SiO(Ga)Al-SiOHAl Ga2O3
turnover frequency 0.14 93.76 1.40
Direct analysis of the mechanism is challenging. The synergistic site cannot be characterized by the specificity of the adsorption of alkanes, as they adsorb separately on both Ga+ and Brnsted acid sites, nor does it allow H/D exchange experiments insight into the mechanism, as H/D exchange is equilibrated in the presence of Brnsted acid sites at the temperatures of the reaction. (6) The regioselectivity of the dehydrogenation, i.e., the presence of 1-butene, which would be formed if dehydrogenation would take place via hydride abstraction by Ga, cannot be used to distinguish between mechanisms proposed, as hydride shifts on Brnsted acid sites are also equilibrated at the studied reaction temperatures. (3)
Thus, in order to distinguish between a classic protolytic dehydrogenation over Brnsted acid sites facilitated by Ga+, (9,16) and hydride abstraction from the alkane by Ga+, (7,15) the reaction order of the dehydrogenation was explored. The reaction order of dehydrogenation via a carbonium ion transition state (TS) (18) on H-ZSM-5 is one (Figure S9). (5) Reaction rates are proportional to the alkane fugacities, while only a small fraction of Brnsted acid sites are occupied. The formation of the carbonium ion has been suggested to proceed through a late transition state, with HH bonds being nearly formed. (3) This involves the protonation of a CH bond in C3H8 to form a CHH three-center two electron bond, which is less stable than the CCH analogues formed during cracking. (19)
The dependence of the reaction rate with the most active Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 showed a more complex contribution. While the rates of dehydrogenation was quite fast at very low partial pressures of propane, the rates at the upper end of the explored partial pressures from 0.25 to 45 mbar were significantly slower (Figure 6). While a reaction order of 1/2 with 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 over a range of partial pressures can be derived in principle, a closer inspection led us to hypothesize that two additive contributions, both initially of first order, cause this difference in first-order (Figure 6). These two first-order contributions were also observed on 1/3 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 (Figure S11). The contributions for the two reactions were estimated by assuming that at low partial pressures the reaction was determined by catalysis from a site that binds propane rather strongly, but has a limited concentration on the catalyst. At high partial pressures, the reaction has been hypothesized to be dominated by a first-order reaction catalyzed by sites with a significantly weaker interaction with propane on sites that are by far more abundant on the studied catalyst. Extrapolation of this second contribution allows to estimate the upper limit of the impact of the first pathway. We hypothesize at present that both pathways catalyze dehydrogenation and cracking of propane in a monomolecular mechanism. Under the present circumstances, the presence of olefins did not negatively influence the rates under the reported experimental conditions.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Representation of measured reaction rates and contributions of two sites on 1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 with propane partial pressures ranging from 277 mbar at 783 K.
We speculate at present that the first pathway is associated with a small number of defects on Ga/H-ZSM-5, but we intend to systematically vary potential defect sites to corroborate the origin of these sites. The main active site catalyzes dehydrogenation via a mechanism involving both Ga+ and Brnsted acid sites, as hypothesized by theoretical modeling below. Because the catalytically active sites form only at high temperatures, it is currently not possible to reliably quantify the concentration of these sites. If we estimate them to be equal to approximately half of the total concentration of BAS, the sites saturating at the low propane partial pressures are an order in magnitude smaller in concentration than those in the high pressure region.
The two sites involved in the heterolytic dissociation are proposed to have two (different) functions, stabilizing R and H+. In consequence, the highest rate is observed at equal concentrations of Ga+ and BAS (Figure 1). When all BAS are replaced by Ga+, the heterolytic dissociation of the alkane may occur between Ga+ and framework oxygen. (20) To corroborate these models and to probe potential surface intermediates, several of these reaction paths were explored via DFT calculations.
2.4. DFT Calculations
Three mechanisms were examined for propane dehydrogenation on H-ZSM-5 and Ga/H-ZSM-5. The first is the Brnsted acid mechanism, which occurs by protonation of a CH bond. The second is the Lewis acid mechanism, which occurs by heterolytic cleavage of a CH bond, with the Ga+ acting as a Lewis acid that stabilizes the resulting negatively charged alkyl fragment. The third mechanism, which we call the LewisBrnsted acid mechanism, occurs via bifunctional catalysis involving cooperativity between the BAS and LAS. While the Brnsted and Lewis acid mechanisms can also occur on isolated Brnsted and Lewis acid sites, respectively, the LewisBrnsted acid mechanism requires both BAS and LAS in close proximity (Figure 7).
Figure 7
Figure 7. Structural representation of a LewisBrnsted acid site (LBAS) pair.
2.4.1. Brnsted Acid Site Mechanism
It is well established that alkane dehydrogenation can occur over a BAS by protonation of a CH bond. (4,6) We examined whether the presence of a nearby Ga+ on the LBAS can lower the activation barrier for this mechanism by polarization of the CH bond, as mentioned by Hutchings. (16) The reaction initiates by protonation of the methylene CH bond of propane, which dissociates in the process to form an i-propenium cation and H2 (Figure 8). The i-propenium then transfers a methyl proton to a framework oxygen to form the propene product.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Brnsted acid mechanism for propane dehydro-genation on the LBAS pair (the other Al center and the Ga+ are not shown).
The transition state resembles an i-propenium cation coordinated to an H2 molecule, with the H2 also interacting with a basic framework oxygen. At no point along the reaction trajectory is the classical 5-center carbonium ion formed, as the proton interacts only with the hydride and not the carbon. This transition state structure is similar to the one found in another DFT study of butane dehydrogenation on Ga-free H-ZSM-5. (21) It is consistent with the conclusion of Kotrel et al., (22) that the transition state of alkane cracking and dehydrogenation reactions are distinctively different. The calculated apparent activation enthalpy for this reaction is 181 kJ/mol, appreciably higher than the apparent activation enthalpy we calculate for an isolated H+ site (155 kJ/mol). This indicates that the presence of Ga+ does not increase the activity of the Brnsted acid mechanism, so that a different mechanism must be responsible for the increased activity of the LBAS pair.
We would like to point out that the apparent activation enthalpy calculated for propane dehydrogenation on an isolated H+ site (155 kJ/mol) is much lower than the experimentally measured apparent activation enthalpy (199  7 kJ/mol). Considering the heat of adsorption, the value agrees well with the 190 kJ/mol reported in another DFT study. (21) Note that the lower value for intrinsic activation barriers by GGA DFT functionals is known for acid catalyzed reactions in zeolites and arises from excessive charge delocalization due to the electron self-interaction error in these functionals. (23) In the other mechanisms that we examine below that do not proceed through carbenium ion intermediates, the DFT barriers are expected to be significantly closer to the experimental values.
2.4.2. Lewis Acid Mechanism
The second mechanism for propane dehydrogenation in the presence of Ga+, originally proposed by Pidko et al. and called the alkyl mechanism, (20) involves heterolytic dissociation of the CH bond over Ga+ and a basic framework oxygen, with the alkyl fragment binding to the former and the proton binding to the latter. Here, we examine this mechanism over the LBAS pair to determine if it could be responsible for the enhanced activity of the Ga/H-ZSM-5. The initial step involves heterolytic CH bond dissociation to form an intermediate state (I, Figure 9). As Ga+ is not a strong Lewis acid, this intermediate is very high in enthalpy, 176 kJ/mol relative to the initial state (A) with propane in the gas phase. The proton in the intermediate then transfers to Ga+, formally oxidizing it to Ga3+ (state B), with an intrinsic activation enthalpy of 53 kJ/mol and an apparent activation enthalpy of 240 kJ/mol.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Alkane addition to Ga of the LBAS (the other Al and the BAS are not shown).
In a following step (Figure 10), the hydride bound to the Ga abstracts a proton from a terminal CH bond of the i-propyl to simultaneously eliminate H2 and propene, regenerating the initial state A of the active site. This step has a calculated apparent activation enthalpy of 202 kJ/mol, making the alkane addition step rate limiting. In contrast, Pidko et al. (20) found the elimination step to be rate limiting, although the barrier they calculate (233 kJ/mol) is similar to ours. As the apparent activation enthalpy of 240 kJ/mol is higher than for the Brnsted acid mechanism on the isolated BAS (181 kJ/mol), we conclude that Ga+ by itself is not sufficient to lower the barrier for propene dehydrogenation.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Concerted elimination of the alkene and H2 from the Ga of the LBAS (the other Al and the BAS are not shown).
2.4.3. Bifunctional LewisBrnsted Acid Mechanism
As neither the Brnsted acid nor Lewis acid mechanism could account for the increased propane dehydrogenation activity of the LBAS pair, we probe a third mechanism that is explicitly bifunctional in nature. This mechanism originates from the protonation of the Ga+ by the adjacent BAS to form a [GaH]2+. This species, in which the Ga is in the formal +3 oxidation state, is a much stronger Lewis acid than Ga+, as evidenced by an increase in the charge on the Ga from 0.55 to 1.01 (Lwdin charge, calculated using the quasiatomic orbital method (24,25)). The transfer of the proton from the BAS to the Ga+ occurs from the lowest free energy state of the LBAS (A) in two sequential steps, A  A and A  A, with A and A being 35 and 75 kJ/mol higher in enthalpy than state A (Figure 11). Although the [GaH]2+ species in state A is much higher in enthalpy, it is significantly more reactive for heterolytic CH activation, owing to the higher Lewis acidity of Ga3+ compared to Ga+.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Two steps involved in the protonation of the Ga+ by the BAS to form the active [GaH]2+.
By far, the most populated state at reaction conditions is the ground state of the LewisBrnsted acid pair (A), as evidenced by very low equilibrium constants of the other states (Table 3) calculated based on the DFT values of the standard Gibbs free energy (Figure 16). This is in line with the experimental results.
Table 3. Standard Gibbs Free Energies and Equilibrium Constants of Calculated States in Relation to the State Composing the LewisBrnsted Acid Pair Ground State and Propane in the Gas Phase (A)
state ΔG783 K [kJ·mol1] K
A 92 7.3 × 107
A + R 246 3.9 × 1017
TS-1 325 2.1 × 1022
B 242 7.2 × 1017
TS-2 322 3.3 × 1022
C 82 3.4 × 106
TS-3 175 2.1 × 1012
A + P 83 2.9 × 106
As with the alkane addition step of the Lewis acid mechanism, the negative alkyl fragment binds to the Ga3+ while the proton is transferred to a basic framework oxygen (state B, Figure 12). Either a methyl or methylene CH bond can be cleaved in this step, with both pathways having the same calculated apparent activation enthalpy of 108 kJ/mol (relative to state A and gas phase propane, 55 kJ/mol relative to propane physisorbed on state A), which is far below the barriers of the other two pathways.
Figure 12
Figure 12. Alkane addition to the LBAS.
In the next step (Figure 13), the proton on the BAS, formed from dissociation of the alkane CH bond, combines with the hydride bound to the Ga to eliminate H2, resulting in state C in which only the alkyl fragment is bound to the Ga.
Figure 13
Figure 13. H2 elimination from the LBAS.
This step also has a low calculated apparent activation enthalpy (103 kJ/mol for both the methyl and methylene pathways) that is very similar to that of the alkyl addition step. This is likely due to the similar mechanism involvedthe reverse of this step is heterolytic HH activation, which is analogous to heterolytic CH activation occurring during the alkyl addition step. The much lower barrier compared to the concerted alkene/H2 elimination step of the Lewis acid mechanism is made possible by the bifunctionality of the LBAS, as the BAS which combines with the hydride is much more acidic than the CH bond of the alkyl fragment which combines with the hydride in the latter mechanism.
Finally, the i-propyl (n-propyl for the methyl pathway) bound to the Ga desorbs as an i-proponium (n-proponium) cation, which is then deprotonated by a basic framework oxygen to eliminate propene (Figure 14).
Figure 14
Figure 14. Alkene elimination from the LBAS.
As the i-proponium (n-proponium) desorbs, the two electrons in the CGa bond localize on the Ga3+, formally reducing it to Ga+ and returning the active site to the initial state A. The calculated apparent activation enthalpy of this step is significantly lower for the methylene pathway (151 kJ/mol) than for the methyl pathway (179 kJ/mol), as the former occurs through a more stable secondary carbenium cation compared to the latter, which occurs through a primary carbenium ion. Even though the apparent activation enthalpy is higher than for the first two steps, the apparent activation free energy is much lower since a significant amount of entropy is released by H2 elimination in the second step. Therefore, the propene elimination step is not rate limiting according to the calculated free energies.
The structures of the transition states for the three steps of the bifunctional mechanism are shown in Figure 15, while the overall energy and free energy profiles for this mechanism are summarized in Figure 16. We note that the transition states of the first and second steps (propane addition and H2 elimination) have the highest free energies and are, thus, both kinetically relevant, while the propene elimination step is not. The apparent activation energy is, therefore, expected to be between those of the first and second steps (103108 kJ/mol).
Figure 15
Figure 15. Transition state structures for alkane addition (TS-1), H2 elimination (TS-2), and alkene elimination (TS-3) of the bifunctional mechanism.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Enthalpy (solid lines) and free energy (dashed lines) profiles for the bifunctional Lewis/Brnsted acid mechanism, occurring by activation of a methyl (blue) or methylene (orange) CH bond. Calculated at 783 K, 10 mbar propane, 0.1 mbar propene, 0.1 mbar H2. The labels for the intermediates (A, A, B, C) and transition states (1, 2, 3) are indicated on the horizontal axis, with R representing physisorbed propane and P representing physisorbed propene.
Alkane dehydrogenation by the [GaH]2+ species was also examined in DFT studies by Joshi and Thomson (26) and Pidko et al. (20) In the first study, it was concluded that [GaH]2+ associated with two nearby Al centers was the active species responsible for ethane dehydrogenation in Ga/H-ZSM-5, although they propose a carbenium mechanism whereby the CH bond heterolytically dissociates with reverse polarization to form a hydride bound to the Ga center and an ethenium cation bound to the framework oxygen. On the most favorable site for alkane activation, they calculate an activation energy of 150 kJ/mol with respect to [GaH]2+ and gas phase ethane. However, they did not consider that having the Ga+ on one Al center and the proton on the other (Ga+/H+, analogous to state A in Figure 11) is lower in energy than [GaH]2+. We calculated this energy difference on the same site that they use and find that Ga+/H+ is lower in energy by 41 kJ/mol, leading to an apparent activation energy of 191 kJ/mol.
Pidko et al. examined both the carbenium mechanism as well as the alkyl mechanism for ethane dehydrogenation and found that the latter has a significantly lower activation energy, (20) although still quite high (172 kJ/mol with respect to [GaH]2+ and gas phase ethane). This activation energy was calculated for a structure in which the two Al centers were far apart (8.14 Å), so that the basic framework oxygens associated with the second Al center were too far away to accept the proton during CH bond activation. Instead, the proton is transferred to a much less basic SiOSi oxygen, which is likely responsible for the high barrier. They also examined a second structure in which both Al centers were located within the same 5-membered ring; however, the geometry is such that the [GaH]2+ strongly coordinates to four framework oxygens, making it unreactive for CH bond activation. In the structure we examine, the two Al centers are located within a 10-membered ring so that the [GaH]2+ is only coordinated to three framework oxygens and is therefore significantly more reactive.
For this latter pathway, the apparent activation enthalpies for propane and butane dehydrogenation over 1/2 Ga/Al were significantly below the apparent activation enthalpy for H-ZSM-5 (Table 4, corresponding Eyring plots in Figures S10 and S11). The values obtained in the presence of Ga+ suggests to a different reaction pathway, as discussed above. In H-ZSM-5 the dehydrogenation occurs via the formation of a carbonium ion in the transition state, while on LewisBrnsted acid pairs the reaction pathway involves the heterolytic activation of the alkane. As it was previously discussed, two additive contributions were observed, both initially first order, assuming a site binding propane strongly but with limited concentration, and another site with weaker interaction and higher concentration. As a consequence, the activation enthalpies are expected to vary upon changing propane partial pressure (Figure S13). The graphs below show the two regimes for the apparent activation enthalpies: at propane partial pressure below 0.01 bar the higher apparent activation enthalpy (approximately 160 kJ/mol) dominates, i.e., the first site is dominating; at propane partial pressure above 0.02 bar the second site dominates and the apparent activation enthalpy drops to 120 kJ/mol. Using the boundary condition of the first order, it is remarkable to note the drop in rate constant with increasing propane partial pressure. This indicates that the higher activation enthalpy is overcompensated by a higher transition entropy.
Table 4. Apparent Activation Entropy and Enthalpy for Active Sites in the Propane and n-Butane Dehydrogenationa
  SiOHAl SiO(Ga)Al-SiOHAl
alk ΔHApp. [kJ·mol1] ΔSApp. [J·mol1·K1] ΔHApp. [kJ·mol1] ΔSApp. [J·mol1·K1]
expt        
pro 199  7.0 52.0  3.1 129  6.6 87.1  6.5
but 186  4.4 50.9  2.0 134  7.2 86.2  5.7
DFT        
pro 155 168 106 221
but 141 181 92 228
aKinetics measured in the rage of 783823 K at a propane partial pressure of 8.75 mbar. The following abbreviations have been made: alkane (alk), propane (pro), and n-butane (but).
3. Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
On Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts with varying Ga/Al ratio with three different sites, namely, Ga+, Brnsted acid sites and GaxOy were found. The Ga+ and Brnsted acid site concentration changed inversely, as Ga+ was exchanged with Brnsted acid site protons. At high Ga/Al ratios (>1/2), additional GaxOy clusters were formed. The highest dehydrogenation rate (2 orders of magnitude faster than the parent H-ZSM-5 and Ga2O3/SiO2 with the same Ga2O3 loading) was observed for a Ga/Al ratio of 1/2, corresponding to a one to one ratio of Ga+ and Brnsted acid sites. This indicates a synergy between Ga+ and a Brnsted acid site, forming a LewisBrnsted acid pair in the dehydrogenation of alkanes. The well-defined catalyst 1/2 Ga/Al, containing mainly (kinetically dominating, but not exclusively) homotopic Lewis Brnsted acid pairs, allowed us to study the mechanism and the kinetics of the alkane dehydrogenation on these LewisBrnsted acid pairs experimentally and via DFT calculations. The highest rates in propane dehydrogenation were, thus, found at equal concentrations of Brnsted and Lewis acid Ga+ sites. While a reasonably high concentration of such pairs are kinetically dominating (the rate increased by more than 300 times compared to the two extreme cases of pure H-ZSM-5 and the fully exchanged Ga-ZSM-5), statistics of site distribution dictates that also some isolated Brnsted acid sites and Ga sites must exist. At the highest rate in propane dehydrogenation (1/2 Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5), the LewisBrnsted acid pairs were estimated to have two additive contributions: one at low propane partial pressure on sites that bind propane rather strongly, but have a limited concentration; and a second with significantly weaker interaction with propane on sites that are by far more abundant on the studied catalyst.
The DFT calculations indicate that the LewisBrnsted acid site pair carries out alkane dehydrogenation through a bifunctional mechanism in which the Brnsted acid site protonates the Ga+ to form a [GaH]2+, which is a strong Lewis acid. The [GaH]2+, together with a basic framework oxygen of the Brnsted acid site, heterolytically activates a propane CH bond with a very low intrinsic enthalpy barrier of 56 kJ/mol. The propane addition step is then followed by elimination of H2 and propene separately in two sequential steps. This LewisBrnsted acid pair is found to be much more active than an isolated Ga+ due to the large increase in Lewis acidity upon protonation of Ga+ by the Brnsted acid site, which facilitates heterolytic CH bond activation. The Brnsted acid site also significantly reduces the activation barrier for H2 elimination by recombination with a hydride compared to the isolated Ga+, on which the proton comes from an alkyl CH bond to simultaneously eliminate propene.
These findings provide a new high-activity reaction pathway for dehydrogenation of light alkanes and provide fundamental insight into the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation over LewisBrnsted acid site pairs. The insight allows not only the systematic development of highly active dehydrogenation catalysts, but offers in general a new perspective on cooperative catalysis by Lewis and Brnsted acid sites in heterogeneous catalysis.
4. Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
4.1. Synthesis
NH4-ZSM-5 provided by Clariant (MFI-100 EX 1716.00 H1-C) with a Si/Al = 50 was suspended in an aqueous solution of ammonium hexafluorosilicate (AHFS, 4-fold excess with respect to the Al content of the sample) and heated to 353 K under vigorous stirring for 5 h. Subsequently, the zeolite was washed six times with hot (353 K), deionized water. This procedure was repeated three times. Afterward, the zeolite was dried at 373 K and converted into the protonic form by calcination in a stream of synthetic air (100 mL/min, 5 h, 10 K/min). Silica (Aerosil 200, Evonik) was used as nonacidic support for comparison. The AHFS treated zeolite was loaded with Ga via incipient wetness impregnation by an aqueous Ga(NO3)3 solution (Ga(NO3)3, Sigma, Aldrich, purity < 99%). After drying under static conditions (10 h, 373 K), the catalysts were calcined in a stream of synthetic air (100 mL/min, 4 h, 873 K, 2 K/min). The samples are denoted as H-ZSM-5, Ga2O3/SiO2, and X/Y Ga/Al Ga/H-ZSM-5 according to their Ga/Al ratio.
4.2. Catalytic Reactions
Catalytic reactions were performed in a fixed bed plug flow reactor, consisting of a quartz glass coated stainless steel reactor. The catalyst bed typically contained 4 mg of catalyst with a particle size range of 160280 μm diluted in 200 mg silicon carbide in order to ensure isothermal reaction conditions. Before the reaction, the precalcined catalysts were reduced in H2 (50 mL/min, 1h, 873 K, 15 K/min). Subsequently, the samples were purged with N2 (15 mL/min, 10 min) at 823 K and the reactions were carried out at 1 bar total pressure with N2 as an inert diluent. The apparent activation enthalpies and entropies were determined in the temperature range of 783823 K for propane and in the range of 763803 K for butane with a hydrocarbon partial pressure of 8.75 mbar and a total flow rate of 100 mL·min1. Determination of reaction orders were carried out at hydrocarbon partial pressures ranging from 0.2545 mbar at 783 K and a total flow rate of 100 mL·min1. An Agilent 6890 Series GC-FID system equipped with an Agilent Technologies HP-PLOT/Q column (30 m × 0.320 mm) and a FID was used for product analysis. The mass balance was better than 99% in all experiments.
Reaction rate constants were determined under differential conversions (x < 3.2%). The overall reaction rates were determined based on the fraction of converted reactants (propane or n-butane). Cracking and dehydrogenation rates were determined for propane from the yields using methane and ethane for cracking and propene for dehydrogenation. For n-butane methane and propene, ethane and ethene were used to determine the rates for cracking and cis-2-butene, trans-2-butene, 1-butene, and isobutene for the rate of dehydrogenation. Biomolecular and secondary reactions were avoided by studying the system at low conversion levels. This was confirmed by the formation of equimolar ratios (1.0  0.1) of cracking products (C2H4/CH4 for C3H8 and C3H6/CH4 for C4H10), while products heavier than the reactants were absent. Deactivation was below 5% after 14 h on stream and several changes in temperature and/or flow rates. All reaction rates and rate constants were normalized to the mass of catalyst. Site specific turnover frequencies were calculated based on catalysts containing only one type of site by normalizing the reaction rate constant to the concentration of the respective active site. Apparent activation enthalpies and entropies were calculated based on the Eyring Polanyi equation:
with the reaction rate constant k normalized per site and to one bar taking into account the respective reaction order, the absolute temperature T, the gas constant R, the Boltzmann constant kB, the Planck constant h, and the Gibbs energy of activation ΔG. The equation was extended via the GibbsHelmholtz equation to the following form:
with the apparent activation enthalpy ΔHapp and apparent activation entropy ΔSapp the equation can be rearranged to its linear form:
This form was used for the representation of the results in Eyring plots and the determination of apparent activation enthalpies and entropies as well as their standard deviations.
4.3. Characterization
The composition of the samples was determined by inductively coupled plasma - optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) on a 700 Series ICP-OES by Agilent Technologies. The Ga/Al ratios set during the synthesis were archived with a deviation of 5% (Table S1)
Concentration and strength of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites (LAS and BAS, respectively) were determined by infrared spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine using a Bruker VERTEX 70 IR spectrometer. Self-supporting wafers of the samples were reduced (1 h, 873 K, 15 K/min) in a stream of H2 (20 mL/min) and outgassed (1 h, 873 K, 106 mbar). The reduction conditions were identical with those before kinetic measurements in the plug flow reactor. Pyridine was adsorbed on the samples at an equilibrium pressure of 101 mbar (1/2 h, 423 K). Concentrations of Lewis and Brnsted acid sites were determined via quantifications of the bands related to coordinatively adsorbed pyridine (1446 and 1455 cm1) and protonated pyridine (1545 cm1), respectively, using molar extinction coefficients of 3.26 and 4.32 μmol·cm2. Deconvolution of the two bands of coordinatively adsorbed pyridine was done via two Gaussian functions centered at 1446 and 1455 cm1.
Magic-angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance measurements of 27Al were carried out on a Bruker Avance AMX-500 spectrometer. Samples were packed into ZrO2 rotors after hydration (48 h) at 42 mbar H2O. The spinning rate was 10 kHz. Al(NO3)·9H2O was used as a reference. Spectra of parent H-ZSM-5 and Ga modified H-ZSM-5 showed no signal of octahedrally coordinated Al (0 ppm) (Figure S1).
The X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) at the Ga K edge (10368.3 eV) was measured at the Alba Light Source in Barcelona, Spain on beamline BL22-CLAESS. Spectra were recorded in fluorescence mode at ambient temperature for references and during in situ reduction, purging and reaction at intervals of ca. 8 min for the catalysts. The spectra were normalized to an edge step height of one and the energy calibrated using metallic Ga (10368.3 eV). (27) Edge energies were determined at the inflection points of the Ga K edges. The samples were packed in capillary reactors with 1 mm outer diameter and 0.02 mm wall thickness. The catalysts were reduced (1 h, 873 K, 15 K/min) in a stream of H2 (5 mL/min) and purged with helium (5 mL/min) at 873 K for 1/2 h before the reaction was carried out at 873 K with 5 mL/min 5 vol % propane in He. Subsequently, the catalysts were cooled to ambient temperature in a stream of H2 (5 mL/min). Metallic Ga, Ga3+ in the form of Ga2O3, GaCl3 and Ga+ in the form of Ga(I)Ga(III)Cl4 (commercially available as GaCl2) were used as references. The contribution of Ga(I) was extracted from the spectra of Ga(I)Ga(III)Cl4 by subtracting the spectra of isostructural K(I)Ga(III)Cl4 from Ga(I)Ga(III)Cl4. K(I)Ga(III)Cl4 was synthesized by mixing stoichiometric amounts of KCl and GaCl3, sealing it into a capillary inside a nitrogen atmosphere (glovebox) and treating it at 573 K for 3 h.
4.4. Stoichiometry Analysis of Temperature-Programmed Reduction
Consumption of H2 and formation of H2O during reduction of the samples were quantified via a Pfeiffer Vacuum Prisma QME 200 mass spectrometer. A quartz reactor tube was packed with 600 mg or 7.2 mg (90 μmol) of Ga/H-ZSM-5. The samples were calcined (2 h, 873 K) in a stream of 20 vol % O2 in He (5 mL/min) and purged in a stream of He (5 mL/min, 1 h, 873 K) in order to exclude water formation by reaction of H2 with O2 adsorbed on the catalyst. Subsequently, reduction was carried out via pulses of 0.69 mL (27.75 μmol) of H2 diluted in He (41 vol % H2 in He) introduced into a constant stream of He (5 mL/min) at intervals of 0.25 h at 873 K. For each sample, 40 pulses were recorded. Calibration of the H2 signal was done via the known amount of H2 per pulse and corresponding area of unreacted H2 signal after the reduction. The reduction of CuO in H2 was used for calibration of the H2O signal.
4.5. Density Functional Theory Calculations
Density functional theory calculations were carried out using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) (28) using a periodic model of MFI with a triclinic unit cell having the experimentally determined dimensions of 20.02 Å × 19.90 Å × 13.38 Å. The RPBE functional (29) was used to describe exchange and correlation, and the DFT-D2 method of Grimme (30) was used to include semiempirical dispersion interactions. The KohnSham orbitals were constructed in a plane wave basis with an energy cutoff of 400 eV and were described in the core regions using the projector-augmented wave method. (31) The KohnSham orbitals were only calculated at the Γ-point and their occupancies were determined using the Gaussian smearing method with σ = 0.02 eV. Electronic structure minimization was performed using the RMM-DIIS algorithm until the change in total energy fell below 104 eV. Geometry optimization on local-minimum structures was carried out until the forces on all atoms were below 0.05 eV/Å.
Transition state structures were determined using the nudged elastic band method (NEB) (32) with 8 or 16 images, depending on the complexity of the reaction trajectory, and a force convergence criterion of 0.3 eV/Å for each image. The maximum-energy structure was then interpolated along the NEB trajectory and used to generate the starting structure and reaction coordinate to refine the transition state with the dimer method (33) until the forces on all atoms fell below 0.05 eV/Å.
The harmonic vibrational frequencies were determined for each structure using a limited set of atoms in the unit cell that consists of all of the nonframework atoms and nine framework atoms. It was confirmed that all of the local-minimum structures had real frequencies and the transition state structures had a single imaginary frequency. The frequencies were used to calculate the vibrational contribution to the free energy in the harmonic approximation for each structure at 783 K. For the gas phase species propane, propene, and H2, the translational and rotational contributions to the free energy were also computed in the ideal gas approximation at 783 K and partial pressures of 10, 0.1, and 0.1 mbar, respectively. Apparent activation enthalpies and free energies were calculated using the enthalpies and free energies of the transition state structures relative to the initial state of the active site and gas phase propane.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


8. Does the article evaluate any promising metal oxide catalysts like Cr2O3, Pt-Sn, Ga2O3 for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
9. Does the article investigate how tuning oxidation states, oxygen mobility, and acid-base properties of metal oxides affects propane dehydrogenation performance? What specific examples and relationships are revealed?
10. Does the article propose mechanistic scenarios for propane dehydrogenation over the studied metal oxide catalysts? What specific reaction steps, intermediates, active sites are described?
11. Does the article explore metal-support interfacial effects in metal oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and insights into activity and selectivity modulation are provided?
12. Does the article evaluate any supported mono-metallic catalysts like Pt, Pd or Ir for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, characterizations and insights are provided?
13. Does the article investigate how properties like metal particle size, shape, and support interactions affect the performance of supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?
14. Does the article propose mechanistic reaction pathways for propane dehydrogenation over the studied supported metal catalysts? What specific steps, intermediates, and active sites are described?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 