<DOCUMENT>
Local and global process intensification
Abstract
The present paper aims at proposing a complementary view of process intensification (PI) based on the concepts of local intensification and global intensification. Local intensification is defined here as the classical approach of PI based on the use of techniques and methods for the drastic improvement of the efficiency of a single unit or device. Some examples are given to illustrate that local process intensification presents several limitations when compared to holistic overall process-based intensification, named global intensification. Indeed, when PI focuses on single units (reactors, separators, hybrid separators, etc.), the strong interactions among all units within the process are ignored and the impact of local intensification of a single unit can be very limited, resulting in weak improvement of the whole process. This paper identifies that process intensification is broader than technical improvement of devices or processes and has to consider several drivers such as economics, safety, eco-efficiency and sustainability to fulfill the key objectives in designing new plants and retrofitting existing units.
1. Introduction
Process intensification (PI), formally regarded as process improvement strategy, consists, according to Stankiewicz and Moulijn [1], in novel equipment, processing techniques, and process development methods that, compared to conventional ones, offer substantial improvements in (bio) chemical manufacturing and processing. It is related to new and innovative technologies which replace large expensive and energy-intensive equipment by devices which are smaller, less costly and more efficient [2], [3], [4]. Among the different strategies, a well-established approach is the design of multifunctional devices, which merge several unit operations, e.g. reaction and separation into one apparatus [2]. However, recent approaches in PI predominantly focus on equipment and more specifically on microstructured technologies, providing a high surface-to-volume ratio, hence increasing mass and heat transfer by several orders of magnitude [5]. The revolution-like manners in which microtechnology develops (and as which it is sometimes praised) manifest themselves in the vast number of patents in this field of research. Every year, numerous patents are reported for microtechnology-related areas. Focusing on microreactors, more than 1500 patent publications in different fields of chemical applications already exist, annually rising in number by more than 250 new patents [6]. Then, from the numerous studies published in the literature, it is clear that PI focuses on the equipment improvement, which can be defined as a local approach of process improvement strategy.
On the other hand, process system engineering (PSE), according to Grossmann and Westerberg [7], aims at improving decision-making for the creation and operation of the chemical supply chain, which deals with the discovery, design, manufacturing, and distribution of chemical products. From this definition, PSE can be considered as a global approach of process improvement strategy. Recently, Moulijn et al. [8] felt that it was timely to attempt to better define the place of PI in relation with other chemical engineering disciplines, such as PSE. Based on the preliminary approach by Grossmann and Westerberg [7] and Marquardt et al. [9], they proposed to define PI in conjunction with PSE. The focus and action of PSE take place along the product creation chain, as a top-down approach from the enterprise to the molecules, while the focus and action of PI are on chemical engineering aspects of the process units separately. PI has a more creative than integrating character and primarily aims at higher efficiency of individual steps in that chain, for instance by offering new mechanisms, materials, and structural building blocks for process synthesis.
In addition, the scales considered are different; PSE focuses less on the scale of molecules, sites and (nano-) structure, whereas PI explicitly includes this level but often pays less attention to the highest levels. It is clear that PI has consequences for the “longitudinal” action of PSE; for instance, development and application of a reactive separation can influence the PSE over the whole chain, from molecule to site, if not to enterprise.
The improvement of processes must also be examined in the context that a major portion of the chemical industry has matured. Most chemical plants were built at a time when profit margins could be kept large and thus were not typically designed to be the most efficient from an energy and raw material perspective. Nowadays, competitive pressures have greatly increased the need for more efficient processes claiming for the redesign and the modernization of existing facilities. Grossmann et al. [10] estimated that, in the end of the 80s, 70–80% of all process design projects in the western countries dealt with the redesign, i.e. retrofit design of existing facilities.
Also, the successful commercialization of specialty chemicals requires the ability to redesign processes quickly, to respond to changes in new technology and to the short life cycle of new products. According to Grossmann and Westerberg, the development of retrofit design strategies is a more difficult problem than the design of new processes because it includes a far greater number of alternatives than the grassroots problem, due to the need to evaluate and use existing equipment. The nature of the retrofit problem is by nature complex and multidimensional. They propose a list of technical objectives as the increase of the throughput by debottlenecking and by higher conversion of feedstocks, the processing of a new feedstock and the improvement of the quality of the product. Sustainability is also considered by the increase of process safety, the reduction of the environmental impact of an existing process, the reduction of energy input per unit of production, and the higher operability of the process (flexibility, controllability).
Concerning economics and the major constraints of process retrofit (PR), several approaches can be developed. The change of the operating conditions of the process can enable to keep the same implemented equipment which is obviously the least costly in terms of investment. The change of architecture of the process by changing the piping that connects the devices is another alternative. For example, with respect to the cost of purchasing a new column, repiping typically incurs very modest costs. It is also possible to keep the process flowsheet intact but to change the equipment sizing, sometimes in ways that the external physical dimensions of the equipment are not altered. Such changes could include installation of new tube bundles inside existing heat-exchanger shells, closer packed trays or even packing inside columns. And finally, the last approach is the addition of new equipment to reach the objectives.
From the definition proposed by Grossmann et al. [10], it is obvious that PR shares numerous keywords (improvement of conversion and yield, reduction of energy consumption and environmental impact, safety considerations, etc.) with process system engineering and process intensification. This large overlapping between those three concepts shows also that PR is concerned by local and global intensification and that synergies between them may exist.
However, as stated by El-Halwagi and co-workers [11], there are some limitations in most of the previous works focused on unit-based intensification when compared to holistic overall process-based intensification.
El-Halwagi and co-workers identified process integration as a holistic and systematic framework for intensification where, however, process intensification has a broader scope. They defined two main classes for intensification: single-unit intensification and plant intensification. Unit intensification refers to the previous definition of process intensification. On the other hand, plant intensification focuses on the improvement of the global process: maximize the throughput, minimize inventory, or minimize utility materials and feedstock. In case of plant intensification, units that will be intensified are not pre-specified and more than one unit can be intensified simultaneously.
The present paper aims at proposing a complementary view of process intensification based on the concepts of local intensification and global intensification. Local intensification is defined here as the classical approach of PI based on the use of techniques and methods for the drastic improvement of the efficiency of a single unit or device (reactors, separators, mixers, exchangers, etc.), to overcome specific limitations that can be related to thermodynamics, kinetics, heat or mass transfer and energy supply. It mainly focuses on the technical improvement of the performances of equipment but the interactions among all units within the process are ignored and the impact of intensifying a single unit on the rest of the process is not considered.
First, global (or overall) intensification has a more general view on the whole process, considering first a multi-dimensional approach consisting in the simultaneous improvement of several units. The process is improved by inventory and utility minimization and by throughput maximization. Process intensification is achieved using the classical methods of local intensification and heat and mass integrations meaning that a complex flowsheet or architecture should be designed to increase the overall process efficiency. The impact of a local change will have an effect on the entire process due to the strong interactions between units and should therefore be studied at the whole process scale.
Secondly, global intensification possesses a multi-dimensional aspect where different drivers (economic, safety, eco-efficiency and sustainability) are included in the strategy. There are some limitations in most of the previous PI works as they focused mainly on technical drivers but did not develop an holistic view, omitting to include the different drivers. This is not the case with retrofit design that recently included various methods to evaluate and reduce the environmental impact of chemical processes. Sun et al. [12] proposed the formulation of a multi-objective optimization problem to determine sustainable chemical process designs taking into account economic, environmental and societal aspects. El-Halwagi and co-workers [13] presented a multi-objective optimization procedure for the recycle and reuse networks including the environmental implications of the discharged wastes using life-cycle assessment. More recently, they developed [11] a first attempt to couple an intensification strategy with a multi-objective optimization problem, but the mathematical functions used to represent intensification lacked for realism. In a recent study, Gani and co-workers [14] presented the development of a software tool and its application to chemical processes, based on the implementation of an extended systematic methodology for sustainable process design.
Further work is still needed to combine process retrofit, process intensification and process system engineering to define an intensification strategy which takes into account both the local approach of PI and the global approach of PSE considering the whole process by multi-objective optimization to propose sustainable and intensive chemical process designs. The strategy should answer the following questions. Which equipment should be intensified in a process? What is the impact of local process intensification of a device on the overall process performance? How should new process architecture be achieved? Which optimization criteria should be chosen? What are the criteria of safer processes?
In the present paper, some examples will be given to illustrate that the classical approach of process intensification based on single-unit intensification presents several limitations when compared to holistic overall process-based intensification.
2. Multi-units aspects: impact of local intensification on the overall efficiency of a process
In most studies dedicated to local intensification, the objective is to improve the reactor or the separator without taking into account the consequences on the whole process. This section illustrates the impact of improving single equipment on the whole process performance.
2.1. Equipment efficiency versus process efficiency
Let us consider a batch or a continuous process unit E with several steps or units. In each of them a specific operation (i.e. transformation or transfer) is carried out. The objective here is to establish the relationship between the efficiency of one specific device (for a continuous process) or step (for a discontinuous process) and the efficiency of the whole process in different conditions and to derive some intensification strategies. The concept of extensity (for example the number of moles) is essential because the case study is different when identical or different extensities are considered in the analysis.
The general definition of the efficiency of a unit or a step corresponds to the ratio of the transformed or transferred extensity flux to the maximal extensity flux which can be transformed or transferred in this unit or operation step. The definition is identical for an entire process. The efficiency η is given by the following equation where G0 is the inlet extensity flux and G1 is the outlet extensity flux:
(1)
In this paragraph, N process units or devices Ei are considered in series (1 ≤ i ≤ N). Each one is characterized by an efficiency η and G0 denotes the outlet extensity flux of equipment Ei (Fig. 1):
(2)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Linear process composed of 5 steps, units or devices in series.
The global efficiency of this serial arrangement of devices is obviously a combination of the local efficiencies of all the devices or steps. The relationship between the local and the global efficiency is a key information to select the local step or device which has to be intensified to improve the performance of the global process. For a complex process, this relationship is not straightforward, but in some specific cases, the relationship can be analytically derived and general rules can be identified. Two cases are selected here, for process units in series, with respect to the type of extensity considered. The first case arises when the same extensity is considered along the process. For example, when several continuous stirred tank reactors in series are used to perform the conversion of a specific molecule, the extensity flux is the molar flow rate of the reactant and the efficiency corresponds to the conversion rate of that reactant. Typical cases concern depollution where the conversion of the pollutant must be maximal and the conversion of a specific reactant, whose concentrations in the final product must be minimized to get the right end-use specifications.
The global efficiency can be defined by considering inefficiencies. Indeed, the overall inefficiency is equal to the product of the local inefficiencies:
(3)
As a consequence, the expression of the overall efficiency is:
(4)
A numerical example is given in Table 1 for a chemical reaction. The objective is to convert the reactant by using two continuous stirred tank reactors in series. The considered extensity and the equipment efficiency correspond here to reactant flow rate and reactant conversion, respectively. In this example, the first and the second units have an efficiency of 10% and 50% (base case). Which unit should be improved uppermost? Intuitively, the intensification of the step with the lowest efficiency appears as the most promising strategy in order to achieve the highest overall benefit. But the results show that, when the local efficiency of one step is increased by 10% while keeping the efficiency of the other step constant, the step with the highest efficiency should be intensified first in order to reach the highest global efficiency.
Table 1. Comparison of two intensification strategies for a unique extensity in a cascade of two reactors.
Empty Cell
Unit 1 η1 (%) Unit 2 η2 (%) Overall efficiency ηg (%)
Base case 10 50 55
Intensification of the first unit 20 50 60
Intensification of the second unit 10 60 64
The second case arises when different extensities are considered along the process, as for instance the conversion of several molecules in a multiple-steps reaction scheme A → B → C. In this case, the overall efficiency is simply equal to the product of the local efficiencies:
(5)
A two-step continuous process is considered as an example presented in Table 2. In the first stage, the reaction (a) is performed, whereas reaction (b) is carried out in the second stage. Both stages are not only reactors but can include other units, such as separation units. Extensities and definitions of efficiencies for each stage are given in Table 2 with a numerical example showing that the global efficiency is equal to the product of the local efficiencies.
Table 2. Comparison of two intensification strategies for different extensities in a two stages process.
Empty Cell
Stage 1 Stage 2 Whole process
Reaction performed A → B (a) B → C (b) A → C (c)
Extensity flux (mol/s) FA FB FC
Efficiency
Molar flow rates (base case)
FC = 12.5 mol/s
η1 η2 ηg = η1η2
Base case 50% 25% 12.5%
Intensification of the first stage 60% 25% 15%
Intensification of the second stage 50% 35% 17.5%
This simple illustration shows that, depending on the considered extensity, the intensification strategy, i.e. the selection of the step or unit which must be intensified to improve the performance of the whole process, can be very different. In Table 2, the most promising strategy in order to achieve the highest overall efficiency consists in intensifying the stage having the lowest efficiency contrary to the previous example in Table 1. The previous relations show that the global efficiency of a process is also a function of the number of steps or units in the process. Then, an intensification strategy would also be the reduction of the number of steps in the process.
2.2. Reduction of the number of steps
The three main drivers for commercial production of chemicals are overall yield, productivity and cost. As indicated previously, the overall yield of a process is a function of the local efficiencies and the impact of efficiency improvement then depends on the chosen step. In fine chemistry, the productivity of a chemical route mainly depends on the labor cost; indeed, an intense labor cost occurs when many procedures are performed manually by workers. The transition from a batch to a continuous process or the use of advanced process control may be solutions in order to reduce the labor cost. The cost driver is mainly dependent on the chemical route. By a rough estimation, the decrease of manufacturing costs is proportional to the reduction of the number of synthesis steps. As mentioned previously, the other driver is logically the overall yield. However, it is important to point out that, economically, an increase of the yield for one individual step does not have the same impact whether the step is located close to the final product or at the beginning of the synthesis route [15]. This also explains why, very often, chemical reactors operate with higher dilution conditions when they are closer to the final product. Higher dilution softens reaction conditions and often favors selectivity and yield with respect to throughput. Conversely, at the beginning of the synthesis route the costs of chemicals are generally low, and the throughput/productivity becomes the driving force.
The example of chemical synthesis of an intermediate product through a multistage organometallic reaction followed by a work-up step is considered here and has been studied by Roberge et al. [16]. Conventional stirred tank reactors, limited by heat and mass transfer, must very often operate with diluted reactants in order to maximize the selectivity. But these diluted conditions are also very detrimental to the reaction time which also contributes to the degradation of selectivity. Therefore, protection and de-protection steps are often used in fine chemical routes, which are considered as additional steps of the process. The use of intensified reactors (micro heat exchanger-reactors) can be used to overcome this bottleneck. In the study of Roberge, different scenarios are studied and compared for a campaign producing five tons of the intermediate. Table 3 presents the reduction of the synthesis route from seven to five chemical steps. Batch reactors, where the slowest reaction is the coupling reaction (bottleneck), have been replaced by a continuous micro-reactor. In this perspective, micro-reactor technology may have a significant impact by allowing the decrease of residence time and the use of a higher temperature by safely performing hazardous reactions. As the workup operations remain unchanged in both cases, the bottleneck of the whole process is then no longer the coupling reaction, but the downstream step. Results show that the intensified process enables to increase both the total throughput and the global yield, and to reduce the number of operators resulting in higher economical performances of 10%.
Table 3. Overview of assumptions and gain for two scenarios in commercial production [16].
Empty Cell
Batch process Continuous and batch
Campaign size (tons) 5 5
Batch assets (6 m3) 7 5
CAPEX (M$) 0 <1
Operators 3.5 2.8
Throughput (kg/min) 1.7 2.1
Bottleneck Coupling reaction Distillation
Gain in yield (%) – 5
Economical gain (%) – 10
The yield has a larger effect on cost than throughput which is explained by the large cost contribution from the starting material since the intermediate product lies closer to the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) than the raw materials. But for an intermediate at the beginning of the synthesis sequence, this situation may be reversed and the throughput would become the critical cost factor of the process. In this particular case, distillation is the bottleneck that would limit the throughput and minimize the effect of reactors intensification, showing that PI requires an overall view of the process.
2.3. Reaction–separation with recycling
In most chemical processes, reactors are sequenced with separators where the desired product is removed from the unconverted reactant that is recycled back to the reactor. The reactor-separator-recycle (RSR) system presents an optimal operating point between the two extrema of a highly efficient reactor coupled with a poorly efficient separator and reversely. The optimal design strategy of RSR configurations has been extensively studied, as the superstructure-based approach [17] and the theory of the attainable region [18], [19], [20]. Kokossis and Floudas proposed a general superstructure for isothermal system divided into a reactor network (isothermal CSTR or PFR in series, in parallel or in series-parallel) and a separator network (distillations column) that are both interconnected (recycles from the separators back to the reactors for example). The superstructure should account for the entire potential interconnections between the equipment. They use economic (maximal profit…) and technical (yield…) objective functions. Glasser and Hildebrandt developed the graphical concept of attainable region that consists in combining a curve representing the characteristic equation (depending on the RSR system) with the attainable region boundary curve to find the optimal operating point. The objective functions are based on the maximum yield. Matallana et al. [21] have recently studied the dynamic aspects of a RSR system. They compared results obtained with an economic objective function and an operability-based one. Results highlight that a conflict between both objectives occurs. The reactor corresponding to the optimal economic design presents a smaller volume and a higher temperature than the one resulting from operability design. This reactor operates close to the boundaries of the domain of attraction meaning that the reactor is more sensitive to disturbances. In the following example, the question of intensification of RSR system will be addressed.
2.3.1. Global intensification strategy of a reaction–separation with recycling
In the present illustration, apparatuses are only characterized by their efficiency. The objective is to identify reactor and separator efficiencies that will maximize the overall process performance without taking into account economic aspects. A RSR system with an isothermal reactor is considered and presented in Fig. 2. The configuration where the recycled stream is obtained at the top of the separator device (not represented here), is strictly equivalent considering the following developments.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Representation of an isothermal reactor–separator system with recycling.
The reactor (equipment 1) efficiency (i.e. conversion) is given by the following expression:
(6)
where the sum G0 + G3 represents the extensity flux at reactor inlet and G1 the extensity flux at reactor outlet. The separator (equipment 2) efficiency is defined as the ratio between the recycled extensity flux G3 over the extensity flux G1 at the separator inlet. The separator efficiency is given by the expression:
(7)
The overall process efficiency ηg can be calculated with respect to the two previous local efficiencies and by using a material balance on the separator. The following expression can be derived:
(8)
The overall system efficiency is represented with respect to local efficiencies in Fig. 3. When the separator exhibits zero efficiency, the overall efficiency is, as expected, equal to the reactor efficiency. It can be noticed that, for a given overall efficiency, several couples of efficiencies (reactor–separator) are solutions of Eq. (8). Indeed, a high overall efficiency can be obtained either with a low separator efficiency and a high reactor efficiency, or reversely a high separator efficiency and a low reactor efficiency. However, in most cases, high global efficiency cannot be obtained at low reactor conversion because the reaction product must be generated first.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Overall RSR efficiency as a function of reactor (equipment 1) and separator (equipment 2) efficiencies.
The relative impact of unit intensification on the whole process efficiency should then be quantified. The study can be performed by using a sensitivity analysis as for instance by calculating the elasticity of the overall process efficiency. The elasticity with respect to the efficiency of unit i represents the relative intensification impact of unit i on the global process efficiency, on a percentage scale: an elasticity equal to 0.5 means that a relative 1% increase in unit efficiency ηi will induce a relative 0.5% increase in the overall process efficiency. Expression of elasticity
is given by the following equation:
(9)
The calculations of reactor elasticity and separator elasticity give some additional information. Using the above relations, these elasticities can be calculated with respect to each equipment, enabling to build elasticity maps, similar to Fig. 3. These maps indicate the relative impact of local intensification strategies that would either focus on the reactor or on the separator. Then, by overlapping two maps representing both elasticities, it is possible to establish a global map with two areas: one area where the reactor is the limiting equipment and one area where the separator is the limiting equipment toward overall process efficiency. These zones are presented in Fig. 4 where the border between both areas is drawn as a thick black dotted line. Thin dashed lines represent the iso-value curves of the elasticity of the overall efficiency with respect to each strategy and the units efficiencies.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Preferential intensification strategies to be applied to the reactor or separator with respect to their respective efficiencies (dotted lines present the values of the elasticity of these strategies).
This figure illustrates that the choice of intensification strategies, even for this simple units layout, is not intuitive and can easily yield to non-optimal decisions. Whatever the separator efficiency below 50% (bottom half of the figure), strategies focusing on the reactor intensification should be favored since they have a more significant impact on the overall efficiency. In this area, elasticity values are above 0.5, indicating that a 10% relative increase in the reactor efficiency will yield to a minimum 5% increase in the overall efficiency. For most layouts, the elasticity is below unity, which indicates the absence of synergetic effects between the units. On the contrary, in the upper left-hand side corner of the map that corresponds to highly efficient separators coupled to low-conversion reactors, separator intensification strategies are favorable and elasticity may reach values far above unity. In this area, a small increase in the separator efficiency yields to a large increase in the process efficiency. From a practical point of view, one should not forget that this necessary increase in the separator efficiency can require a large capital expenditure if no new technology is considered.
2.3.2. Reaction–separation with recycling: impact of the reactor performance on the energy consumption
The modes of action offered by the local intensification of the reactor concerns the improvement of reaction efficiencies with a better control of operating conditions for efficiency and selectivity gains [3], [22], but also lead to reduced energy consumption during the downstream separation operation. Indeed, a high reactor conversion increases the concentration of desired product at separator inlet, leading, for a distillation column, to a lower reflux ratio, as well as a lower energy consumption in the boiler. This case corresponds to a debottlenecking approach when the volumes of equipment are fixed. This is illustrated for a simple process composed of a continuous reactor where a first-order reaction takes place followed by an existing distillation column comprised of 20 theoretical plates [23]. The purity of the desired product at the column head is fixed to 99%. Depending on the feed composition of the column (reactor outlet), the power supplied at the boiler and the recycling rate are adjusted to satisfy the composition constraints at the column outlet. The results illustrated in Fig. 5 show that the reactor intensification implies an energy saving. This gain depends on the volatility of the species, indicated by the separation “difficulty” (i.e. an easy separation corresponds to a relative volatility α = 3 and a difficult separation corresponds to a relative volatility α = 1.5; enthalpy of vaporization = 25 kJ/mol).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Impact of the intensification of a reactor on the energy consumption of downstream separation by distillation. Influence of the “difficulty” of separation.
The results illustrated in Fig. 5 show that the energy gain is significantly different depending on the “difficulty” of separation. For an increase of about 30% of the reaction efficiency, the gains in energy are about 25–40%.
3. Process intensification by flowsheet architecture improvement
Among the different strategies of intensification, the possibility of changing the architecture of the process and the use of a network of devices are very often forgotten or not even considered as PI. However, a great deal of process intensification is linked with the sequence of the process operations and the potential integration of unit operations into multifunctional process units, respectively. In the examples presented here, it is shown that simple changes of the flowsheet, as recycling or heat and mass integration can be used to intensify a process, even with conventional non-intensified devices.
3.1. Reactant injection strategies
For each reactant fed to the reactor, there are several injection strategies [24] to choose among one-shot (batch), step function (continuous feed), pulsed feed injection and staged injection of the feed (in the sense of time or space). The choice between a continuous and a batch operation is probably one of the most important parameters. Batch processes are more appropriate for high-value products such as fine chemicals (high operating costs, improved flexibility) whereas continuous processes are more advantageous for industrial-scale production (low operating and labor costs, higher production, safer production). For example, in the work of Lomel et al. [25], the case of the Grignard reaction was considered. It has been shown that the transition from a batch to a continuous process presented a considerable reduction of operating times by using a continuous micro-reactor in which mixing and heat transfer were intensified.
Steady-state operation is the easiest configuration to operate a continuous process but is not necessarily the optimal one. The variation of the feeding flow rate (pulsed reactant injection) can increase the process performance. This strategy can be beneficial for conversion or selectivity when the reaction kinetics is non-linear or when reaction orders are different [24].
In fixed bed operation with periodic flow reversal (reverse flow reactor), the top and the bottom part of the catalyst bed play the role of regenerative heat exchangers for feed and effluent, allowing exothermal reactions to be operated auto-thermally. The configuration is well suited for exothermal reactions, for instance the catalytic combustion of undesired compounds (volatile organic compounds) [26]. The reverse flow operation for methanol synthesis has also been investigated in forced unsteady conditions using a network of three catalytic fixed bed reactors with periodical change of the feed position [27]. This configuration is called ring reactor and corresponds to the principle of a simulated moving bed. Methanol synthesis is performed from CO, CO2 and H2 over a commercial Cu–Zn–Al catalyst at 50 bars and 300 °C. The objective was to save energy by using the thermal storage capacity of the catalyst bed, and by applying an optimal temperature profile to improve thermodynamic conditions for exothermal equilibrium-limited reactions. In this way, numerical simulations have shown that a periodic unsteady regime and auto-thermal processing are possible (for a given range of optimized switching times) because no energy is needed except the moderate feed preheating at a temperature of 100 °C. It has been demonstrated that this configuration achieves a better conversion rate than the equivalent reverse-flow configuration by avoiding the inconvenient phenomenon of wash-out.
The technique of staged injection of a reactant corresponds to the addition of at least one of the reactants in a distributed manner along the reactor (reactant dosing). This technique can be led through an inter-stage feeding reactor system (discrete feeding) or in a plug-flow membrane reactor (distributed feeding, which is a generalization of the first configuration). Membrane reactors have mainly been considered for the improvement of equilibrium-limited reactions by selective product removal. For instance, Kiwi-Minsker et al. [28] have developed a two-zone micro-structured system: the zones are separated by a membrane allowing to eliminate the hydrogen produced by the propane dehydrogenation, implying the shift of the thermodynamic equilibrium, and hydrogen is oxidized by air providing heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation. For a network of irreversible reactions, optimal local reactant concentrations are essential for a high selectivity toward the target product. If undesired consecutive reactions can occur, it is usually advantageous to avoid backmixing. The possibility to enhance selectivity and yield in network of parallel and serial irreversible reactions has been theoretically investigated by Hamel et al. [29] and Thomas et al. [30] in an isothermal tubular membrane reactor. It is demonstrated that the reaction order of the individual reactions have to fulfill some requirements (reaction order of the reactant in main reaction lower than the one in the side reaction, case of heterogeneously catalyzed partial oxidation) if reactant dosing is used. Then, it is advantageous to lower the reactant concentration by means of dosing; the corresponding decrease in concentration can be compensated by increasing residence time.
3.2. Process intensification by heat and mass integration
3.2.1. Complex reactor networks for multistep reactions optimization
Intensification requires to design the optimal configuration of process units and to reach the optimal operating conditions for each process unit. The optimal configuration also means that heat and mass transfers should be managed judiciously thanks to heat integration and optimal mass recycling policy. As indicated above, methods have been developed as the attainable region method (Glasser, Hildebrandt and co-workers Lakshmanan and Biegler [45]) and the superstructure method (Kokossis, Floudas and co-workers). The reactor network superstructure consists in taking into account all flow and mixing patterns with different feeding, recycling and bypassing strategies around ideal CSTRs and PFRs (modeled by five CSTRs) in series, parallel, series-parallel configurations. Different techno-economic objective functions may be considered to perform the optimization. The complex reactor network has been determined for isothermal operation first [31] and then for non-isothermal operation [32]. The examples presented hereafter demonstrate that the optimal configurations maximizing the yield are not a unique reactor but a network of several reactors.
The optimization of complex chemical schemes requires a reactor network to maximize products selectivity. In order to increase this selectivity, local intensification strategy consists in the adjustment of the operating conditions, such as temperature, pressure and concentration, to selectively change the kinetics of the reactions scheme, within the same process architecture. However, in the following illustration, local intensification of chemical conditions in a specific reactor may lead to different process structures involving different types of reactors. Chitra and Govind [33] considered the classical Van de Vusse reaction scheme and determined that two optimal reactors structures, based on continuous stirred tank and plug flow reactor, can be proposed to maximize the yield of B as a function of the characteristic time of the three reactions. The Van der Wusse reaction scheme can be written as:
(10)
Fig. 6 illustrates the two reactors structures for different ratios of reaction times tR1/tR2 and tR1/tR3. Let us consider the intensification of initial working conditions, denoted by point A in the figure: it is possible to increase the yield of B from 0.3 to 0.6 by decreasing tR1/tR2 and decreasing tR1/tR3 (scenario B) or by decreasing tR1/tR2 and increasing tR1/tR3 (scenario C). These two strategies results in two different process structures: scenario B can be performed with a single plug flow reactor whereas scenario C requires using a cascade of a stirred tank followed by a plug flow reactor. This simple example shows that local intensification of a specific device can lead to more complex structures and that architecture modification is also an intensification lever.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Impact of the intensification of chemical reactions on the process structure delivering the maximal selectivity (according to [33]).
The following example concerns the isothermal synthesis of α-pinene whose reaction scheme can be written as:
(11)
Reactions are either first-order or second-order reaction. The objective function intends to maximize the selectivity of C over D. The optimal configuration consists in one PFR and one CSTR connected in a complex way as described in Fig. 7. The maximal selectivity is obtained with a complex structure combining several reactors with recycling and specific injection points. This example shows that a simple architecture is not sufficient in order achieve high performances.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Reactor network for α-pinene synthesis [31].
The methodology of reactor network superstructure was then extended to non-isothermal homogeneous operation [32] and for non-isothermal multiphase reactor networks [34]. The example of naphthalene oxidation is considered as an exothermal reaction. The catalyzed gas phase reaction between naphthalene A and oxygen (always in great excess so that oxygen concentration is supposed to be constant) is represented by the following scheme:
(12)
The objective is to maximize the yield of phthalic anhydride C. The optimal configuration found consists in a cascade of four PFR with four intermediate heat exchangers in order to remove the heat excess. The feed stream is split between the first (53.8%) and the second stage (46.2%) and a recycle loop is added. An optimal profile of removed heat is determined by optimization in order to find a maximum yield equal to 99.9% [32].
3.2.2. Reactor intensification by heat and mass integration network
The case study of exothermal reactions is a typical case of PI for which energy savings could be performed by judiciously using the energy produced by the chemical reactions. Among the several possibilities which can be used as mass recycling, heat recycling, combined heat and mass recycling, PI can also lead to a drastic minimization of volume of the reactors. The following example is an illustrative case study that shows how intensification by heat and mass integration can reduce drastically the catalyst amount of an exothermal reaction. The irreversible reaction A + B → P is assumed, P denoting the products. The feed is supplied at 20 °C, whereas reaction cannot be performed above 210 °C for safety reasons (risk of solvent vaporization). The catalyst is assumed to operate in kinetic regime. Different process configurations are studied and presented in Fig. 8, with the objective of saving energy and decreasing catalyst mass to reach a conversion of 96%.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. Different intensification scenarios of a catalytic reaction by heat and mass integration.
Adiabatic reactors are considered with different ways to recycle mass and/or heat at reactor inlet in order to kinetically initiate the chemical reaction. The optimal solution is to recycle both mass and heat (configuration 4) because it enables to preheat the feed and to decrease the global mean residence time. A drastic decrease in the catalyst mass is observed. An isothermal reactor at 210 °C (configuration 5) would obviously present the best productivity from the point of view of the catalyst mass.
3.2.3. Process intensification by recycling
The following illustration is taken from the precipitation domain used in the treatment of wastes. Classical installations are composed of a continuous stirred tank reactor (precipitator) followed by a solid–liquid separation (clarifier) device. Because the concentration of the compound to eliminate is generally very low, precipitation reactors have very large volumes. The decrease in the reactor volume is a key parameter to reduce the cost of the precipitation process, and Plasari and Muhr [35] proposed new process strategies based on relationships between process parameters and reactor volume. Three different tested configurations are presented in Fig. 9: the classical configuration described above (Fig. 9a), a recycling strategy (Fig. 9b) where an important part of the sludge is recycled from the clarifier to the reactor and an integrated precipitator-settler (Fig. 9c) which consists in a perfectly-mixed precipitation zone coupled with a clarifier.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. Configurations for precipitation and settling [35].
The recycling and the integration strategy enables to drastically increase the kinetics of the limiting step, which is the particles growth, by increasing the concentration of particles and then the specific surface of solid per unit volume. From population balances and by taking into account some hypotheses (particles produced only by nucleation, growth rate independent of particle size, agglomeration and breakage negligible), the authors derive the expression of the mean residence time for each configuration. It is then possible to establish the following equations relating the recycle ratio R = qR/Q and the liquid–solid separation ratio λ = Q/q to the volumes:
(13)
where Vclass is the reactor volume of the classical configuration (a), Vrecy is the reactor volume of the configuration with recycling (b) and Vint is the perfectly mixed precipitation volume of the integrated configuration (c). These equations demonstrate that the reactor volume can be drastically reduced if the recycle ratio or the liquid–solid separation ratios are large.
4. Intensification drivers
Global intensification is not only a multi-units approach but also a multi-dimensional strategy which has to consider the different drivers as economic, safety, eco-efficiency and more generally sustainability. The importance of economic considerations in the design of process equipment and chemical plant facilities to maximize profitability is no longer to be demonstrated. However, most local intensification studies focus on the technical performance only, without considering the cost of the new intensified technology. It is often the case that projects based on nice improved systems have been abandoned due to economic reasons. More generally, not only production costs but other criteria of process sustainability have to be considered, as environmental problems, health and safety hazard. Nevertheless, such integrated assessment of these elements into process intensification has not been generally addressed in the previous approaches. Several examples are presented here to show that it is necessary to develop a more global approach of PI to solve the complicated issues of sustainability.
4.1. Economic drivers
The fields of applications of intensification are very vast and the disparities among the various examples are sometimes significant. It is therefore difficult to derive general laws on the economic gains in operation. It is, however, possible to approach the problem in a simple way by estimating the return on investment (ROI) time on the investment coming from the financial gain contributed by the productivity gain associated with the technological change (transition from the conventional process to the intensified process). This estimation can be made by the following simple calculation:
(14)
where Itotal denotes to the total amount of investment (€) and Gannaul the annual financial gain (€/year). This annual financial gain is equal to the product of the annual nominal production (tons/year), the product price (€/ton) and the productivity gain associated with the intensified technology (%). From this relationship, the production gain necessary to pay off an investment of 100 k€ in 3 years is presented in Fig. 10 as a function of the price of the product and the production capacity [23]. It is found that technological innovation mostly favors the pharmaceutical processes (products with high added value and low tonnage) because even with a small overall gain in the productivity by a few percent, there is a short time to return on investment. The innovation for intermediate products at a few euros per kilogram and higher annual tonnage requires a substantially higher overall productivity gain. For a higher investment of several hundred kilo-euro (to use the figure, either the value of the nominal productivity at constant gain, or the gain at constant nominal productivity must be multiplied accordingly), Fig. 10 indicates that the expected gain on the entire production line should not be incremental but should at least touch several dozen percent, which is a much more difficult objective. The simple hypothesis made here considers that the financial gain is borne entirely by the productivity gain and shows the need to find other gains on operating costs in order to reduce the ROI time.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Production gain required for an investment of 100 k€ in 36 months based on the price of the manufactured product and for different production capacities (tons/year) [23].
However, Becht et al. [36] showed that Capex reduction is a major driver of process innovation. Their rough calculation was based on an overall Capex of 10 M€ for setting an intensified technology, and a return on investment time of 10 years. Even for an economically pessimistic scenario, an overall net present value of 0 €, the positive differential cash flow has to amount 1.63 M€/year (for a constant interest rate of 10%) meaning that the new technology has to provide an economic net advantage of 163 €/ton if the production is 10 kt/year. Even for a rather poor project with a zero NPV, this simple example shows that the target is pretty ambitious.
Techno-economic analysis is a key issue in process design and process intensification. As illustrated in the following example, various economic scenarios lead to different technical solutions. This implicitly shows that reversely, the way how improvement or local intensification of equipment is performed may strongly influence the final profitability strategy. A complex techno-economic analysis, taking into account Capex and Opex, has been performed by Kokossis and Floudas [17] for benzene chlorination (production of 50 kmol/h of chlorobenzene). The reaction network is given by:
(15)
Authors have underlined that the optimization of various objective functions imply various process networks. The objective functions were, respectively:
-
to maximize the total profit of the plant (scenario 1),
-
to minimize the annualized venture cost of the plant (scenario 2),
-
to maximize the overall yield (ratio of the molar flow rate of desired product over the molar flow rate of feed reactants) (scenario 3).
The results, given in Table 4, show that for each objective function, different process configurations are obtained. Indeed, maximizing the overall yield (scenario 3) will not lead to the maximal profit because yield does not actually take into account the separation network and the recycling rate. As expected, a PFR is the optimal reactor for a consecutive reaction network with respect to the yield criterion. The annualized cost and the profit (scenarios 1 and 2) provide similar results with process based on CSTR presenting a lower Capex and Opex. These results show the importance of taking into account the coupling of the separation and the reactor network and the need for a systematic methodology to extract optimal solutions.
Table 4. Scenarios for the chlorination process [17].
Empty Cell
Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
Reactor network 3 CSTR in series
High recycling ratio 2 CSTR in series
Medium recycling ratio 1 PFR
Low recycling ratio
Separation network 2 distillation columns (identical for the 3 scenarios)
Profit (M$) 1.224 1.166 0.667
Annual cost (k$) 321 293 785
Yield 0.314 0.46 0.565
Conversion 0.326 0.501 0.617
4.2. Safety drivers
It is commonly accepted that process intensification is closely linked to equipment miniaturization. The resulting minimization of the inventory of hazardous material is so that the safety and environmental consequences of loss of containment are reduced in the event of a large leak from the process equipment, leading to the concept of inherently safer process by intensification. However, according to Luyben and Hendershot [37], the direct link between intensified process and inherent safety is not always true and a more global analysis of the process has to be performed. They claimed that these small hold-ups may also be very sensitive to disturbances which can cause rapid changes within the process, and which may be detrimental to safety and product-quality constraints before corrective action can be taken. The intensified process may be less robust to changes in the internal and external environment, creating a conflict with the concept of inherently safer process design. Among their different examples, they considered the comparison of the irreversible and exothermal benzene nitration in two alternatives scenarios, with the same objective of 96% conversion:
(16)
C6H6 + HNO3 → C6H5NO2 + H2O
The first scenario is based on a large CSTR and the second considers two small CSTRs, each reactor being equipped with a jacket to cool the fluid. The two small reactors can be viewed as an intensified version of the large reactor because the higher surface to volume ratio enables to increase the cooling heat flux per reacting volume of the reactor. The two corresponding scenarios are presented in Table 5. Clearly, in absence of dynamics consideration, the intensification principles would favor scenario 2 because the inventory of dangerous materials is smaller and the size of equipment is smaller meaning a lower capital cost, and less required coolant.
Table 5. Scenarios for benzene nitration process [37].
Empty Cell
Scenario 1 Scenario 2
Configuration 1 CSTR 2 CSTR in series
Volume of each reactor (m3) 122 14
Liquid holdup (%) 100 75
U (BTU/h/ft2) 150 150
A (ft2) 1230 289
Temperature deviation (°F) (response to a step of benzene flow) +0.2 and −0.4 +1.7 and −3.6
The response of each configuration to a step in the benzene flow is studied (increase to 120% and decrease to 80% with respect to the nominal value of 100%). Results show that the maximal temperature deviations are larger when two small CSTRs are used. A change of the inlet flow rate implies a larger variation of concentrations in a small CSTR than in a large CSTR due to different space times (lower inertia for a small space time). If the controller response is not sufficiently fast, the kinetics of reaction being very sensitive to variation of concentrations, the system of two CSTRs is much more instable, despite of large heat transfer capacities.
Despite several advantages under steady-state operation, the first small CSTR presents much poorer dynamics results due to a lower liquid hold-up. The closed-loop response is more oscillatory, the temperature deviations being about an order of magnitude larger in the small reactor than in the large one.
4.3. Inventory drivers
The minimization of the inventories of reactants and products is a key issue in factories which is related to safety and economic considerations because stocks of chemicals are often hazardous and expensive. Then, global intensification aims at the compromise between the maximization of the throughput for a given process, the inventory minimization, or the minimization of utility materials and feedstock, as proposed by El-Halwagi and co-workers [44].
The production of acetaldehyde through ethanol oxidation, studied by Ponce-Ortega et al. [11], is considered here as an illustration case to reduce process inventory. The main difference here with respect to the classical superstructure optimization is that the process intensification approach considers the minimization of the inventory for a given production, whereas the classical superstructure optimization usually considers the maximization of the profit or the minimization of the total cost. The flowsheet is composed of a catalytic reactor, two scrubbers to remove some gases from the industrial exhaust (using ethanol as a solvent), and a network of three distillation columns to separate acetaldehyde from the unreacted ethanol, from light organic wastes and from water. About 11,240 tons of ethanol, that is a hazardous and flammable liquid, are stored for two weeks. Whereas the classical superstructure-based optimization usually considers the maximization of the profit, the process intensification approach, developed by the authors, is used to minimize ethanol inventory. To reach this objective, two scenarios were taken into account: one scenario without new intensified equipment and one scenario with an intensified reactor and a distillation column. The main results are presented in Table 6. The addition of new intensified units in scenario 2 implies a higher process yield but does not provide a significant reduction of ethanol inventory with respect to scenario 1. By manipulating the reflux ratio of the third column in scenario 1, the ethanol recovery rate is higher leading to ethanol savings. The ethanol quantity stored is decreased by approximately 37%.
Table 6. Results of acetaldehyde production [11].
Variable Base case Scenario 1 (no new units) Scenario 2 (with new units)
Reaction temperature (K) 600 580 610
Reflux ratio (3rd column) 3.5 5 3
Ethanol inventory (tons) 11,240 7100 7080
Process yield 0.589 0.315 0.648
4.4. Environmental drivers
The environmental impact of a chemical process is closely related to social, technical and economic issues. The decrease of environmental impacts is generally costly but can also generate savings due to a decrease of energy consumption for example. A typical example concerns the reduction of greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions in a factory. To reach the given constraints, some investments are necessary in order to save energy (optimized heat exchanger network, use of more efficient equipment, recovery of low level energy, etc.) whose production is often the main source of GHG emissions. Energy saving is also beneficial in the long term. The main tool to determine the environmental impact of a process is life cycle assessment (LCA). This methodology has been widely described in the literature and is now considered as a tool for process design, selection and optimization [38]. LCA is a standardized method divided in four main steps [39]:
-
Definition of the scope of the study (objectives and system boundary).
-
Life cycle inventory analysis (determination of mass and energy input and output fluxes by mass and energy balances).
-
Life cycle impact assessment [calculation of environmental impacts based on mass and heat fluxes with an impact assessment method, for example Eco-Indicator [40]].
-
Results interpretation (improvement analysis).
The results of LCA are subjected to the quality of the collected data, to the hypotheses considered in each scenario, to the chosen impact assessment method and to the selected allocation procedure when co-products are obtained. LCA has been used in the literature coupled with process integration to analyze a biofuels production process [41], or coupled with exergy analysis to analyze a petrochemical process [42]. The coupling between environmental analysis, economic analysis and process integration techniques has been recently developed by different research teams as described below. The environmental method consistently used in these methods is LCA. Ponce-Ortega et al. [13] establish a multi-objective optimization model for the synthesis of recycle and reuse mass integration networks. Sources (inlet flow rate), interceptors (representing each available unit with conversion factor based on physical and chemical properties) and sinks (exit flow rate or waste stream discharged to environment) are defined and used to build the problem together with constraints. An environmental objective function is measured by an impact evaluation method (Eco-Indicator 99) and an economic objective function considers fresh sources and treatment costs. Solution is represented by a set of Pareto optimal solutions and a network is also obtained. This approach requires mathematical models to represent all process alternatives, making its application difficult and time consuming.
An other methodology for systematic process analysis and generation of design alternatives has been developed by Carvalho et al. [14] for continuous or discontinuous processes. The corresponding tool, called SustainPro, determines a set of mass and energy indicators, establishes operational and design targets and identifies process alternatives matching the design targets. The starting point is to define the process specifications (prices, conditions of operation, and process flowsheet) of the base case. Then, indicators are calculated to identify process bottleneck. A general safety, economic and environmental evaluation is performed to take into account these issues in the design. Finally, design alternatives are generated and each alternative is evaluated using environmental impact tools and safety indices with respect to the reference design (base case). This method is especially useful for process retrofit. This methodology has been applied to the production of an intracellular enzyme: the β-galactosidase. The basic process operates in a batch mode and is divided into three main sections: fermentation, primary recovery and purification. By applying the methodology, two main solutions were found: water purification or water recycling. As water purification was not economically viable, the recycle of water was chosen. An important decrease of eutrophication and acidification indexes was observed and the investment was fully recoverable making the new design an economically sustainable alternative.
5. Conclusion
In the present contribution, several examples have been given to illustrate that the classical approach of process intensification based on single-unit improvement (local intensification) presents several limitations when compared to holistic overall process-based intensification (global intensification). In fact, a joint local and global intensification strategy needs to be developed, based on a two-step approach. Firstly, global intensification approach can be performed to get a drastic improvement of the whole performance of the global process. The appropriate selection of the elementary unit operations that have to be intensified is one technique that can be used. Optimization of process architecture by using reactant injection strategies, heat and mass integration or reactants recycling is another complementary approach. Secondly, local intensification by classical techniques, such as microstructuring to avoid heat or mass transfer limitations, use of innovative driving forces or multi-functional systems, can be performed to reach the expected technical performances of the devices.
In addition, it has been shown that process or device improvement is not only based on technical criteria but several drivers such as economic, safety, eco-efficiency and sustainability have to be considered to fulfill the key objectives in designing improved processes and new plants or in retrofitting existing units. For instance, enhanced process safety is submitted to PI. As the inventory and flows of hazardous substances are lowered, the process risk is typically reduced. Additionally, conservation of natural resources, including better utilization of mass and energy, may be linked to PI.
The objective of the paper was not to oppose local and global intensification but to show the complementary aspects between both methods. Local intensification is essential because it considers the physical and chemical phenomena taking place in a system. Nevertheless, the focus is also made at the scale of unit operation without considering the interactions between them. Global intensification techniques will consider these interactions and constitute then a relevant tool that can validate the addition of intensified equipment in a global process.
Given the complexity of a typical process and the various objectives, several authors [11], [14] have already developed an effective framework for generating and pursuing valid opportunities for process intensification. In both approaches, Gani and El-Halwagi groups propose to couple an intensification strategy with a multi-objective optimization problem where the units that will be intensified are not pre-specified and more than one unit can be intensified simultaneously and where additional intensified units can be considered in the strategy. Optimization criteria are based on the previously cited drivers (economic, safety, sustainability, etc.). Following the same objectives, Freund and Sundmacher [43] have developed a methodology not based on the classical unit operation concept but on the basic functional principles encountered in a chemical process. Process intensification is led at three levels: the phase level, the unit level and the plant level and interactions between levels are taken into account. In these works, models of performance of the different devices have an important role to play in this framework. The results obtained by the two approaches are promising but however the challenge is to propose now more reliable models that enable to consider local intensification of equipment.
Appendix A. Nomenclature
Latin letters
elasticity taking into account the impact of ηi variations on η
Fj
molar flow rate of component j (mol/s)
molar flow rate of component j at unit inlet (mol/s)
G
extensity flux
Gannual
annual financial gain (€/year)
Itotal
total amount of investment (€)
N
number of process units
q
actual flowing volume (m3 s−1)
Q
actual flowing volume (m3 s−1)
R
recycle ratio
V
unit volume (m3)
Greek letters
ηi
efficiency of a process or an equipment i
ηg
overall efficiency
λ
liquid–solid separation ratio
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
