I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Generation of subnanometric platinum with high stability during transformation of a 2D zeolite into 3D
Abstract
Single metal atoms and metal clusters have attracted much attention thanks to their advantageous capabilities as heterogeneous catalysts. However, the generation of stable single atoms and clusters on a solid support is still challenging. Herein, we report a new strategy for the generation of single Pt atoms and Pt clusters with exceptionally high thermal stability, formed within purely siliceous MCM-22 during the growth of a two-dimensional zeolite into three dimensions. These subnanometric Pt species are stabilized by MCM-22, even after treatment in air up to 540C. Furthermore, these stable Pt species confined within internal framework cavities show size-selective catalysis for the hydrogenation of alkenes. High-temperature oxidationreduction treatments result in the growth of encapsulated Pt species to small nanoparticles in the approximate size range of 1 to 2nm. The stability and catalytic activity of encapsulated Pt species is also reflected in the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene.
Main
The unique catalytic properties of metal clusters have attracted great attention because they have a behaviour that is distinct from metal nanoparticles (NPs) and mononuclear metal compounds1,2. However, the stability of metal clusters can be a limitation for their applications in heterogeneous catalysis at higher temperatures. Loading atomically dispersed metal species on solid supports can be a method to improve their stability3,4. In this respect, because of their high thermal stability and confinement effects, zeolite materials appear as promising supports for preparing supported metal clusters5. By conventional methods (such as wet impregnation and ion exchange), the location of metal species cannot always be controlled, and metal NPs will usually be formed after the post-treatment. Moreover, during the reaction or during some harsh thermal treatments, active species on the external surface can aggregate to form large NPs (>5nm), resulting in a decrease of catalytic activity6,7,8,9.
Recently, Iglesia et al. have developed a method to encapsulate small metal NPs into microporous cavities during the synthesis of different zeolitic materials. Different types of metal NPs, with sizes in the approximate range of 1 to 2nm, were encapsulated into zeolites such as Sodalite (SOD), Analcime (ANA) and Gismondine (GIS)10,11. This method has been used, so far, for the synthesis of Al-containing zeolites, and the metal nanoparticles encapsulated in those zeolites are resistant to sintering12. Nevertheless, in some cases, the introduction of Al into the zeolites may restrict the reaction scope of these materials because of the acidity associated with the presence of Al sites. Gates et al. have prepared single metal atoms and metal clusters (below 1 nm) confined in zeolites and performed excellent detailed characterizations on the location and atomic structure of these metal species13,14. In this case, metal clusters with identified atomicity can be anchored into the pores of pure-silica zeolites, and the stability of metal clusters obtained by thermal decomposition of the metal precursor (for example, organometallic compounds) could be an issue. In some cases, they may agglomerate even at room temperature under the ambient environment. Therefore, developing a facile and sustainable method for incorporating metal clusters in high-silica zeolites with high thermal stability is still a challenge.
In this work, we present a new strategy for the preparation of zeolite-confined subnanometric Pt species (single Pt atoms and Pt clusters) catalysts with high stability during transformation of a two-dimensional (2D) into three-dimensional (3D) zeolite. As the starting material, we choose a pure siliceous layered precursor of MCM-22 (MWW-type zeolite)15 with the idea that, during the condensation of the layered zeolite precursor, the hemi-cages (cups) and cageswith internal dimensions of 0.7 and 0.7 × 1.8nm, respectivelywould entrap the subnanometric Pt species. The resultant material will be named as Pt@MCM-22. In this way, Pt individual atoms and Pt clusters will be incorporated into the cups and cages of MCM-22 zeolite. It will be shown that subnanometric Pt species in the cavities can differentiate reactants by size and show exceptional high thermal stability and better catalytic activity.
Structural characterization
The preparation process of Pt@MCM-22 is schematized in Fig. 1. To incorporate subnanometric Pt species into MCM-22, purely siliceous MWW precursor (namely ITQ-1) was first synthesized16. Subnanometric Pt species were prepared using dimethylformamide (DMF) as a weak reduction and capping agent17,18. The fluorescence emission spectrum and picture of the DMF solution containing subnanometric Pt species are shown in Supplementary Fig. 1. The incorporation of subnanometric Pt species was carried out during the swelling process of the lamellar zeolitic precursor (MWW(P)), which can be monitored by X-ray diffraction (see Supplementary Fig. 2). After the swelling process, subnanometric Pt species as well as the surfactant molecules were located between the layers. Then, the organic surfactant was removed by calcination in air at 540C, leading to the formation of Pt atoms and clusters encapsulated by the supercages of 3D MCM-22, giving the final Pt@MCM-22 sample (the loading amount of Pt is 0.11 wt%, measured by inductively coupled plasma spectrometry (ICP)). As well as full encapsulation, Pt species could also be confined in the cups located at the external surface of the MWW crystallites.
Figure 1: Illustration of the preparation of Pt@MCM-22.
During the swelling process of layered MWW zeolitic precursors (MWW(P)), a solution containing subnanometric Pt species is added. MWW layers are expanded by the surfactant (hexadecyltrimethylammonium, CTMA+OH) and subnanometric Pt species are also incorporated into the internal channels between individual MWW layers. Removing the organic agents will lead to the formation of 3D Pt@MCM-22, in which subnanometric Pt species are confined in the external cups on the surface or encapsulated in the supercages of MCM-22.
Full size image
The structures of as-prepared Pt@MCM-22 were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-angle annular dark-field detector high-resolution scanning TEM imaging (HAADF-HRSTEM imaging). As shown in Fig. 2a, only MCM-22 crystallites can be seen in the TEM image. The hexagonal structure of MCM-22 is preserved after the incorporation of Pt species, as confirmed by the fast Fourier transform (FFT) and powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Supplementary Fig. 3). In the STEM images (Fig. 2b), the 12 member-ring (MR) sub-units of the external cups in MCM-22, with diameters of approximately 0.7nm, can be clearly seen from the view of the c-axis. Indeed, this imaging technique is chemical sensitive because it provides Z (atomic number)-contrast between heavy Pt atoms (bright features) and MCM-22 zeolite composed of light atoms19. The contrast for single Pt atoms has been analysed on the basis of the intensity profiles, as shown in Fig. 2e, f. The good dispersion of subnanometric Pt species is confirmed in additional STEM images (see Supplementary Figs 4 and 5). Furthermore, Pt clusters and individual Pt atoms with fine dispersion can be distinguished clearly in the HAADF-HRSTEM images (Fig. 2c, d). Further intensity profiles of different types of Pt species can be found in the Supplementary Information (see Supplementary Figs 6 and 7)20. It is worth mentioning that the intensity differences of the bright dots displayed in the HAADF-HRSTEM images maybe due to the focus conditions of the electron beam on the Pt atoms/clusters (or equivalently to the location of these atoms within the zeolite crystallites). For instance, Fig. 2e (area #2) and Supplementary Fig. 6 (area #3) clearly illustrate how the intensity of the dots corresponding to two neighbouring atoms is slightly different, indicating their different location in the MCM-22 crystallites. To better understand these findings, we have carried out HAADF-HRSTEM image simulations (see Supplementary Fig. 8). The simulation results confirm the interpretation of the experimental HRSTEM images, which correspond to individual Pt atoms and Pt clusters incorporated in MCM-22. Even though it is difficult to obtain the exact location of Pt species, some important information can still be obtained based on the HRSTEM images. As shown in Supplementary Figs 9 and 10, Pt single atoms and small clusters appear to be confined in the cups and at the connecting walls between the cups, while some Pt clusters could also be encapsulated in the supercages in MCM-22 (as illustrated in Fig. 2g). Meantime, there are also some atomically dispersed Pt species anchored on the framework of MCM-22. Since the internal dimensions of the supercages are 0.7 × 1.8nm, 1013Pt atoms can be contained, considering their three-dimensional structures (a schematic illustration of a Pt5 cluster confined in supercages of MCM-22 is shown in Fig. 2h)21. We could find only a few large Pt clusters (about 0.71.0nm), which can fill up the supercages of MCM-22. However, there are few Pt particles larger than 2nm observed in the sample.
Figure 2: Atomic structures of Pt@MCM-22.
a, TEM image of Pt@MCM-22. The inset is the corresponding FFT diffractogram of the TEM image. Scale bar, 50nm. b, HAADF-STEM image of Pt@MCM-22. Scale bar, 20nm. c,d, Atomic structures of Pt clusters confined in MCM-22. Scale bar, 5nm. e, HAADF-HRSTEM image of Pt@MCM-22, where two zoom-ins are shown in the square regions (marked in green (#1) and yellow (#2)). In these two areas, several single atoms have been highlighted. Scale bar, 2nm. f, Corresponding intensity profiles obtained on the two zoomed areas in e. g, Schematic illustration of Pt@MCM-22 in a top-down view along the c axis. Pt clusters and individual Pt atoms are located in the surface cups, cavities and 12-MR supercages. h, Schematic illustration of a Pt5 cluster in supercages of MCM-22. i, Size distribution of subnanometric Pt species in a Pt@MCM-22 sample.
Full size image
Due to the beam sensitivity of zeolites, the location of the atoms/clusters cannot be investigated by focal-series studies22,23. However, the fact that we are performing these HAADF-HRSTEM studies in an aberration-corrected microscope offers the possibility to have access to the third dimension by varying the depth of focus. As can be seen in Supplementary Fig. 11, even if the structure of MCM-22 is destroyed (including mass loss) by the electron beam, Pt species still remain at the same position or move by just a few angstroms, indicating that these Pt atoms/clusters are probably embedded/anchored in the internal space of the zeolite crystallites. Nevertheless, information about the location of Pt species can be deduced according to the molecular sieving effect of MCM-22, which will be discussed in the section on catalytic activity.
The particle size distribution of subnanometric Pt species shown in Fig. 2i was obtained by counting more than 300 particles. A size distribution ranging from single atoms to Pt clusters nearly to 1nm in size, with a majority for Pt clusters between 0.20.7nm, can be seen there. It has been reported that subnanometric metal species (single atoms and clusters) are unstable above 250C (refs 24,25,26). However, if one considers that the preparation procedure of Pt@MCM-22 includes a high-temperature process (540C for 4h) for removal of the organic template, it appears that subnanometric Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 show excellent thermal stability in air.
Spectroscopic characterization of samples
A Pt@MCM-22 sample has been measured by X-ray adsorption spectroscopy (XAS) to study the local environment of Pt and to estimate the coordination numbers of Pt species. The Fourier transform of extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of Pt@MCM-22 and the Pt and PtO2 reference are shown in Fig. 3a and Supplementary Fig. 12. Considering the first shell, the Pt@MCM-22 spectrum is dominated by a peak centred around 2.65Å with a smaller contribution at 2.08Å (both distances not phase corrected). Comparing with reference samples, the stronger contribution can be assigned to PtPt bonds in Pt clusters. The assignation of the weaker peak is too long to be ascribed to PtO bonds from PtO2 (1.65Å, see Supplementary Fig. 12), but according to literature data it is compatible with PtO bonds between Pt and the zeolite frameworks27. The presence of PtO bonds in Pt@MCM-22 sample has also been confirmed by the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectrum of Pt@MCM-22. As it can be seen in Fig. 3b, the curve shape of the Pt@MCM-22 sample looks like Pt(0) (first derivative and oscillations around 11,580 and 11,595 eV) but the white line intensity is higher, indicating the presence of PtO bonds25. Based on the fitting results of the EXAFS spectrum (see Table 1), the coordination number of Pt in Pt@MCM-22 is about 4.7, which would correspond to Pt clusters with a size of less than 0.7nm (that is, with less than 13 atoms), assuming that Pt clusters show a cubo-octahedral shape28,29. Even though the atomicity of Pt species obtained based on EXAFS data is slightly larger than that obtained based on HRSTEM images, the average size is still in the cluster size range (below 0.7nm), which is in line with the results obtained from electron microscopy and our synthesis principle.
Figure 3: Characterization of Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp.
a, Fourier transform of k3-weighted EXAFS spectrum of the Pt@MCM-22 sample (not phase corrected). The fitting curves for PtO and PtPt contribution are also presented. b, XANES spectrum of Pt@MCM-22, with the first-order derivative spectrum given in the inset. c, Fluorescence emission spectra excited at 260nm. d, Enhancement of the mass signal of HD in H2D2 exchange experiments on Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp at room temperature. e, Photographs of Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp under white light and ultraviolet light. f, IR spectra of CO adsorption on Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp.
Full size image
Table 1 Result of the fit performed on the Pt@MCM-22 EXAFS spectrum.
Full size table
As is well known, the optical properties of metal clusters and metal NPs are very different due to their distinct electronic structures. For comparison, we have prepared a Pt/MCM-22-imp sample with 0.2wt% of Pt by a conventional impregnation method (see Methods). As shown in Supplementary Fig. 13, Pt NPs in the approximate size range of 1 to 5nm are formed on MCM-22. The fluorescence emission spectra under excitation at 260nm (see Fig. 3c) show that Pt@MCM-22 with Pt clusters presents a clear emission peak around 360nm which can be associated with Pt clusters with fewer than 10 atoms30,31. In contrast, no fluorescence emission signal can be observed in Pt/MCM-22-imp. The fluorescence emission of Pt clusters can also be seen from the pictures of the two samples under white light and ultraviolet light, respectively. As shown in Fig. 3e, strong fluorescent light emission can be observed in the Pt@MCM-22 sample under ultraviolet light.
To compare the different properties of subnanometric Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 and Pt NPs in Pt/MCM-22-imp on H2 activation, H2-D2 exchange experiments were carried out32. Notice that H2 can diffuse through the 10-MR window that communicates between the supercages in which a portion of the Pt species are encapsulated. The results given in Fig. 3d show that the formation rate of HD over Pt@MCM-22 is much higher than over Pt/MCM-22-imp, indicating that the subnanometric Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 are more active on the H2 activation than the Pt NPs in Pt/MCM-22-imp, which is in agreement with the literature33.
To investigate the chemical states of Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp, CO was used as a probe molecule for IR spectroscopy. As shown in Fig. 3f, two CO adsorption bands can be observed, which can be ascribed to CO interacting in lineal and bridge configurations, respectively. The reported CO frequencies for Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 are lower than those observed for CO adsorbed in atop positions of Pt nanoparticles supported on MCM-22 and some conventional oxide carriers34,35, which indicates a higher electron donor capacity of the subnanometric Pt species. It was suggested that the zeolite matrix can act as an electron donor, increasing the electron density of encapsulated Pt clusters36. On the other hand, small metal clusters may bear a higher electron charge due to their higher unsaturation degree, while specific supports could modify the net electronic charge of the clusters37.
Catalytic activity
As has been presented above, incorporation of Pt in the expanded layered precursor of MCM-22 leads to isolated Pt atoms and Pt clusters on the cups located at the external surface and also probably in the internal space of MCM-22. On the other hand, in the case of the Pt/MCM-22-imp sample prepared by the impregnation method, most of Pt NPs (1  5nm) should be located only at the external surface. To test the catalytic properties and to acquire more information on the location of Pt species in the Pt@MCM-22 sample, we have chosen hydrogenation of alkenes with different molecular sizes as probe reactions. First, the hydrogenation of propylene, which can diffuse through 10-MR windows and reach the supercavities with subnanometric Pt species, was performed in a fixed-bed reactor. Results in Fig. 4a show a higher activity of Pt@MCM-22 than Pt/MCM-22-imp. Notice that the reaction rate of Pt species is about five times higher for Pt@MCM-22. This difference of activity between Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp has also been observed before in the H2-D2 exchange experiment. The results would confirm the accessibility of propylene to all Pt species regardless of their location within the zeolite. However, as we said before, Pt species can also be encapsulated within 0.7 × 1.8nm supercavities of MCM-22, which are accessible only through the 10-MR windows. As shown in Fig. 4b, the reaction rates for hydrogenation of isobutene of Pt/MCM-22-imp are similar to those of Pt@MCM-22, which is contrary to the activity difference for the propylene hydrogenation. Indeed, due to the molecular sieving effect of 10-MR windows in MCM-22, isobutene is mainly accessible to Pt species located at the external cups on the surface of MCM-22, while it should not be accessible to Pt atoms and clusters encapsulated in the cavities inside MCM-22. Therefore, by combining STEM characterization and the catalytic results on hydrogenation of propylene and isobutene, one can speculate that a large proportion of Pt species are located within the supercavities of MCM-22 in the Pt@MCM-22 sample.
Figure 4: Reaction rates of Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp in hydrogenation of light olefins.
a,b, Hydrogenation of propylene (a) and hydrogenation of isobutene (b). The reaction rates are normalized based on the amount of Pt species in both catalysts.
Full size image
High-temperature stability of Pt@MCM-22
The exceptional stability of the subnanometric Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 has been demonstrated by performing oxidationreduction treatments at 650C. Under such harsh conditions, small Pt NPs with sizes of approximately 1nm can be found in Pt@MCM-22 after one cycle of oxidationreduction treatment at 650C (see Fig. 5a and Supplementary Fig. 14). Those individual Pt atoms and small Pt clusters with a few atoms located in the internal space of the MCM-22 crystallites have mostly aggregated to larger Pt clusters or small Pt NPs (in the range of 1 to 2nm). As for Pt clusters with more than five atoms, they should be more stable because they are captured by the cups and supercages of MCM-22. Checking by STEM, we have observed some Pt clusters below 1nm while few Pt individual atoms can be found on in the Pt@MCM-22-1cycle sample (as shown in Supplementary Fig. 15). With further cycles of oxidationreduction treatments, Pt clusters will continue to grow larger, as presented in Fig. 5bd (more STEM images can be found from Supplementary Figs 1618). Nevertheless, their size distributions (Fig. 5fh) show that most of the small Pt NPs are still below 2nm, indicating the high stability of encapsulated Pt species in MCM-22 crystallites during the very extreme oxidationreduction treatments at 650C. In the case of Pt/MCM-22-imp, oxidationreduction treatments at 650C lead to continuous growth of Pt NPs (images are presented from Supplementary Figs 19 to 22 and the size distributions of Pt NPs are shown in Supplementary Fig. 23). In the Pt/MCM-22-imp-4cycles sample (Supplementary Fig. 22), some Pt NPs as large as 30  50nm are observed. However, it is important to take into account that, due to the lower melting and boiling point of Pt nanoclusters, subnanometric Pt species can be mobile during the high-temperature treatments, especially for those Pt species located on the external surface38,39,40. Thus, after four oxidationreduction cycles at 650C, only 30% of the initial Pt (measured by ICP) remain in the Pt@MCM-22 sample. Despite that, the stability against agglomeration of Pt species encapsulated in MCM-22 is still much better than the Pt/MCM-22-imp materials prepared through conventional impregnation methods.
Figure 5: Pt@MCM-22 after high-temperature oxidationreduction treatments.
ad, STEM images of Pt@MCM-22 after different numbers of cycles of oxidationreduction treatment at 650C. a, Pt@MCM-22-1cycle. b, Pt@MCM-22-2cycles. c, Pt@MCM-22-3cycles. d, Pt@MCM-22-4cycles. Scale bar in ad, 20nm. eh, Size distributions of small Pt nanoparticles encapsulated in Pt@MCM-22 after different numbers of cycles of oxidationreduction treatment at 650C. e, Pt@MCM-22-1cycle. f, Pt@MCM-22-2cycles. g, Pt@MCM-22-3cycles. h, Pt@MCM-22-4cycles. i, Schematic illustration of the evolution of individual Pt atoms and Pt clusters encapsulated in MCM-22 during the high-temperature oxidationreduction treatments.
Full size image
Taking into account the higher stability of Pt@MCM-22, we also decided to test its catalytic activity for dehydrogenation of propane. Indeed, dehydrogenation of short alkane molecules is of great interest to activate alkanes, and catalytic processes require frequent reactionregeneration cycles at high temperature41. As can be seen in Supplementary Fig. 24, Pt@MCM-22 exhibits higher activity than Pt/MCM-22-imp at 550C. Moreover, after five reactionregeneration cycles at 550C during the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane, Pt@MCM-22 sample retains 90% of its initial activity while Pt/MCM-22-imp has lost more than 40% of its initial activity. It should be remarked that no significant loss of Pt in the Pt@MCM-22 sample is observed by ICP after five cycles of propane dehydrogenation reaction. In addition, the Pt@MCM-22 sample after two and five oxidationreduction cycles at 550 C has also been studied by STEM. As shown in Supplementary Figs 25 and 27, the particle sizes of most of the Pt species increase slightly, but still remain below 2nm. Strong fluorescence emission under ultraviolet light can also be observed on those two samples (see Supplementary Fig. 27), indicating the presence of Pt clusters even after treatments at 550C. This is in agreement with the higher thermal stability of the Pt@MCM-22 sample.
Conclusions
We have presented a new strategy to prepare subnanometric Pt catalysts in 3D MCM-22 zeolite with exceptional high stability, starting from 2D MWW-type precursors. Pt single atoms and clusters are stable after calcination in air at 540C and under reaction conditions. This new method provides a possibility for the generation of highly stable subnanometric metal catalysts for high-temperature catalytic reactions in pure siliceous zeolites.
Methods
Synthesis of the solution containing Pt clusters.
Subnanometric Pt species were prepared by a dimethylformamide (DMF) reduction method. 20mg Pt(acac)2 (Platinum(II) acetylacetonate) were dissolved in 40ml DMF. Then the solution was heated at 140C for 16h. After the heating process, the excess DMF in the solution was removed with a rotary evaporator, resulting in a Pt-DMF solution of around 10ml.
Synthesis of ITQ-1 and Swelled ITQ-1.
ITQ-1 zeolite (IZA code MWW) is the pure-silica analogue of MCM-22. It could be synthesized using trimethyladamantammonium (TMAda+) as a structure-directing agent in the absence of alkali cations, but reproducibility problems appeared. If hexamethyleneimine (HMI) is added as second SDA, the reproducibility of the synthesis, as well as the quality of the materials obtained, are greatly improved. The use of TMAda+, HMI and sodium cations allows a fast and highly reproducible synthesis of pure-silica ITQ-1.
An example of the procedure for the synthesis of ITQ-1 using TMAda+, HMI and Na+ cations is as follows: 0.95g of NaCl was dissolved in 50.70g of a solution 0.42M of N, N, N-trimethyl-1-adamantanamonium hydroxide, previously diluted with 21.33g of water. Then, 2.62g of hexamethyleneimine was added to this solution, followed by 4.88g of silica (Aerosil 200, Degussa) under continuous stirring. This reaction mixture was heated in a PTFE-lined stainless steel autoclave at 150C rotated at 60r.p.m. for five days. After filtering, the white solid obtained was washed until the pH was less than 9.
To prepare the swelled purely siliceous ITQ-1 with subnanometric Pt species, 2g of the lamellar precursor was dispersed in 8g of H2O milliQ, and 40 g of a cetyltrimethylammonium hydroxide solution (25 wt%, 50% exchanged Br/OH) and 12g of a solution of tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (40 wt%, 30% exchanged Br/OH) were added together with 40ml of Pt-DMF solution, the final pH being around 12.5. The resultant mixture was heated at 52C, stirring vigorously, for 16h to facilitate the swelling of the layers of the precursor material. At this point, the solid was recovered by centrifugation and washed with distilled water, and then dried at 60C for 12h.
Synthesis of Pt@MCM-22.
Pt@MCM-22 can be obtained through the calcination of the Pt@Swelled MWW(P) composite. The calcination process was performed as follows. First, the temperature was raised from room temperature to 540C at a ramp rate of 2Cmin1 in a N2 atmosphere. The total time in the N2 atmosphere was about 4.5h. Next, the atmosphere was switched from N2 to air and maintained at a temperature of 540C for 4h. Finally, in the cooling phase, the temperature was reduced from 540C to room temperature in an air atmosphere. The obtained sample is denoted as Pt@MCM-22.
Stability test of Pt@MCM-22 samples.
To test the thermal stability of the subnanometric Pt species, a high-temperature oxidationreduction cyclic treatment was used. Fresh Pt@MCM-22 sample was first subjected to an oxidation treatment at 650C in air (temperature ramp rate 2Cmin1 and maintained at 650C for 2h). After the oxidation treatment, the sample was reduced at 650C in H2 (temperature ramp rate 2Cmin1 and maintained at 650C for 2h). The above reduction and oxidation treatment were considered as one cycle and the sample after one-cycle treatment is called Pt@MCM-22-1cycle. In a similar way, the Pt@MCM-22-1cycle can be further applied in consecutive oxidationreduction cycles.
Preparation of Pt/MCM-22-imp through impregnation method.
To compare with the Pt@MCM-22 materials, the Pt/MCM-22-imp sample was prepared through a conventional wet-impregnation method. MCM-22 (prepared through the calcination of ITQ-1) was used as the support. DMF solution containing subnanometric Pt species was used as the precursor for Pt nanoparticles. In a typical preparation of Pt/MCM-22-imp with 0.2 wt% of Pt, 2.2g MCM-22 (pure silica) was firstly dispersed in 25ml of H2O and 35ml of Pt-DMF solution. The suspension was kept stirring at room temperature for 30min and then sent to a silicone oil bath at 120C to remove the solvent. After removing the solvent, the solid was dried in air at 100C for 16h. Finally, Pt/MCM-22-imp can be obtained after reduction in H2 at 450C (temperature ramp rate 5Cmin1) for 3h.
We have also tried to use the incipient wetness impregnation (IWI) method to prepare supported Pt nanoparticles on MCM-22. However, the dispersion of Pt obtained by the IWI method does not give a better dispersion of Pt species on MCM-22.
Characterization.
Samples for electron microscopy studies were prepared by dropping the suspension of Pt@MCM-22 or other materials, using ethanol as the solvent, directly onto holey-carbon-coated Cu grids. The measurements were performed using a JEOL 2100F microscope operating at 200kV, both in transmission (TEM) and scanning-transmission modes (STEM). STEM images were obtained using a high-angle annular dark-field detector (HAADF), which allows Z-contrast imaging. The current density is 0.9pAcm2 when working on the JEOL 2100F. High-resolution STEM (HRSTEM) imaging, using the HAADF detector, was performed using a FEI Titan Low-Base microscope operated at 300kV and equipped with a Cs probe corrector (CESCOR from CEOS GmbH), a monochromator and an ultra-bright X-FEG electron source. The convergence angle was 25mrad and the inner and outer angles for HAADF imaging were 70 and 200mrad, respectively. The typical probe current was set to 2pA and the total dose on the sample varied between 0.23Ccm2 under the HRSTEM imaging conditions, which corresponds to low-dose conditions42. Multi-slice HAADF-HRSTEM image simulations have been carried out using QSTEM software43, with the experimental settings of the FEI Titan Low Base as inputs. For this purpose, the thermal diffuse scattering parameter was fixed at 30 for a temperature of 300K.
Hydrogen/deuterium (H2-D2) exchange experiments were carried out in a flow reactor at room temperature (25C). The formation rate of HD species can be measured by the enhancement of the mass signal intensity (ion current). The feed gas consisted of 4mlmin1 H2, 4mlmin1 D2 and 18mlmin1 argon, and the total weight of catalyst was 115mg. The sample has been diluted with 230mg of SiC. Reaction products (H2, HD and D2) were analysed with a mass spectrometer (Omnistar, Balzers). The m/z mass values used are 2 for H2, 4 for D2 and 3 for HD. The sample was in situ reduced at 200C for 2h with a temperature-ramp rate of 10C/min from room temperature to 200C. Then the temperature was decreased to 25C and, once stabilized, the H2 feed was changed to the reactant gas composition. The temperature was maintained at 25C for about 60min.
Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) was performed with a HTPhilips XPert MPD diffractometer equipped with a PW3050 goniometer using Cu Kα radiation and a multisampling handler.
XAS measurements were carried out on the BM23 beamline at the ESRF facility (Grenoble, France). Fluorescence XAS spectra at the Pt L3-edge (11.564keV) were collected with a 13-element Ge detector on a self-supported pellet at room temperature. A Pt reference foil was collected for energy calibration. The beam energy were selected by a double-crystal Si(111) monochromator, with third-harmonic rejection performed by means of a Rh-coated mirror at an angle of 4mrad (ref. 44). EXAFS signals were extracted and analysed using the IFEFFIT package45.
Measurement of catalytic performance of Pt@MCM-22 and Pt/MCM-22-imp.
Hydrogenation of propylene was performed in a flow fixed-bed continuous reactor. 30mg Pt@MCM-22 diluted with 2g SiC (the grain size of SiC used in this work is between 0.4 to 0.6mm) powder was loaded in a quartz tube reactor. The reaction was performed at room temperature with a flow of 2mlmin1 of propylene, 6mlmin1 of H2 and 32.7mlmin1 of Ar. Products were analysed with a Bruker on-line gas chromatograph (GC) with flame ionization detector (FID). The conversion of C3H6 was kept below 15% to calculate the reaction rates.
Hydrogenation of isobutene was performed in a flow fixed-bed continuous reactor. 30mg Pt@MCM-22 diluted with 2g SiC powder was loaded in a quartz tube reactor. The reaction was performed at room temperature with a flow of 1.5mlmin1 of isobutene, 4.5mlmin1 of H2 and 24mlmin1 of Ar. Products were analysed by a Bruker on-line GC with FID detector. The conversion of isobutene was kept below 15% when the calculating reaction rates.
Dehydrogenation of propane was performed in a fixed-bed reactor. A cylindrical quartz tube was loaded with 1.10g of Pt@MCM-22 catalyst material (in the case of Pt/MCM-22-imp, the amount of catalyst was 0.60g). Catalyst was diluted with SiC to keep the total volume of solid constant (3cm3). Before the reaction, the sample was reduced by H2 at 550C. The reaction was run at 550C with a flow of 30mlmin1 of propane and 3mlmin1 of N2 for 15min, followed by a regeneration step at 550C with a flow of air for 30min. The reaction stream was analysed by an on-line Varian GC, which was equipped with a flame ionization detector (FID) and a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). Conversion of C3H8 was kept below 10% to calculate the initial reaction rate.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


29. Does the article discuss process intensification approaches that can be applied to propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples and potential benefits are described?
30. Does the article analyze techno-economic factors that affect the viability of propane dehydrogenation processes? What specific considerations and quantitative analysis are provided?
31. Does the article discuss safety issues like flammability and explosion hazards associated with propane dehydrogenation? What specific concerns, examples, and mitigation strategies are described?
32. Does the article summarize remaining challenges and knowledge gaps in propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific issues and future research directions are identified?
33. Does the article propose leveraging high-throughput computational methods to accelerate propane dehydrogenation catalyst screening and design? What specific techniques and opportunities are described?
34. Does the article highlight needs for improved in-situ characterization tools to better understand propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific capabilities and opportunities are identified?
35. Does the article envision potentially transformational catalyst architectures that could enable performance breakthroughs in propane dehydrogenation? What specific ideas and opportunities are proposed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 