I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Enriching Propane/Propylene Mixture by Selective Propylene Hydroformylation: Economic and Environmental Impact Analyses
Abstract
Industrial propylene hydroformylation (PHF) processes use polymer-grade propylene (99.99 wt% propylene) obtained from the energy-intensive distillation of propylene/propane mixtures produced in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactors. The typical effluent from a PDH reactor consists of 55% propylene and 45% propane, referred to as refinery-grade propylene. Recently, it was shown that refinery-grade propylene (6070% purity, the rest is propane) can be directly used for propylene hydroformylation over Rh-based complexes as catalysts without the need for C3 distillation. The enriched propane is recycled back to the PDH reactor. At typical industrial conditions (2.5 MPa, 90 C), hydroformylation with refinery-grade propylene occurs in a propane-expanded liquid (PXL) phase. In the PXL phase, the syngas solubility can be easily tuned with pressure to enhance activity and product selectivity. Comparative economic analyses show >20% savings in capital investment for the PXL process compared to the conventional process. Elimination of the energy-intensive C3 distillation step also reduces the PXL process utility cost by approximately 20% compared to that of the conventional process. The overall savings in total production cost for the PXL process is approximately 9% or 9 cents/lb product, which translates into an annual savings of nearly $12 M for a 300 kt/y plant. Comparative gate-to-gate environmental impact analyses by the economic inputoutput life cycle assessment (EIO-LCA) method shows that the lower material and energy consumption in the PXL process results in reduced environmental impacts (approximately 20% reduction in each of the following categories: greenhouse gas emission, air pollutants and toxics release) than the conventional process. These results indicate that the PXL process is a greener and more sustainable process for butyraldehyde production.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:Propylene hydroformylation Propane-expanded liquids Economic analysis Life cycle assessments
Synopsis
Novel hydroformylation process harnesses selective olefin activation for separation of C3 hydrocarbons, resulting in significant economic and environmental benefits.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Butyraldehyde is the precursor for a variety of industrial chemicals including 2-ethylhexanol (2EH), one of the most widely used plasticizer alcohols, and butanols, which are used to manufacture pharmaceuticals, polymers, and pyroxylin plastics. The hydroformylation reaction, also known as oxo synthesis, is the dominant industrial technology for aldehyde production. It entails the addition of synthesis gas (syngas), a mixture of CO and H2, to olefins in the presence of catalysts. (13) The global market in 2015 was 4.4 billion and is expected to reach 5.7 billion in 2022, with an annual growth rate of 3.9% between 2016 and 2022. (4)
Industrial hydroformylation catalysts are based on homogeneous cobalt and rhodium complexes exclusively. Compared to Rh-based processes (T = 85130 C, P = 1.55.0 MPa), harsher conditions (T = 140200 C, P = 50300 bar) are required to activate the cobalt and intensify the reaction. The Rh-catalysts are mainly used for propylene hydroformylation reaction due to significant advantages of low pressure, high activity, and regioselectivity. There are two types of commercial processes for propylene hydroformylation: the homogeneous low-pressure oxo process and the aqueous biphasic oxo process. (57)
The aqueous biphasic oxo process (also known as Ruhrchemie/RhonePoulenc process) uses water-soluble trisodium 3,3',3-phosphinetriyltribenzenesulfonate (TPPTS) as the ligand with Rh catalyst to overcome the expensive separation step involving catalyst and the reaction products. In the biphasic process, the active catalyst remains dissolved in the aqueous phase where the reaction occurs, while the reactants and products, which are organic and relatively nonpolar, separate into a second immiscible phase which is easily separated from the catalyst solution. However, the activity of the water-soluble catalyst is significantly lower as compared with the standard homogeneous Rh/triphenylphosphine (TPP) catalyst due to solubility limitations of olefin and syngas (CO and H2) in the aqueous phase. (8,9)
A commercial plant employing the homogeneous low-pressure oxo process using TPP modified Rh catalysts to produce butyraldehydes was successfully started at Ponce, Puerto Rico, with a capacity of 136000 tonnes per year. (10) Ever since it was first introduced, the homogeneous low-pressure oxo process has maintained its position as the worlds foremost oxo process, having undergone much improvement and refinement. For example, instead of using excess TPP as ligands, today, several low-pressure oxo plants produce butyraldehyde using a more advanced bis-phosphite-modified rhodium catalyst with higher activity and regioselectivity. (11,12) However, for this process, polymer-grade propylene (up to 99.5% purity) is generally used as feedstock. (13,14) Even though polymer-grade propylene costs approximately 50% more than refinery-grade propylene (6070% purity), its use makes sense if it is readily available on-site from feedstock that is specifically made for manufacturing polypropylene with a much higher capacity. However, for propylene made on-site from a propane dehydrogenation unit, it may be more economical to use the cheaper propane + propylene mixture as feedstock.
Recently, we demonstrated that refinery-grade propane/propylene mixtures can be used directly for propylene hydroformylation without the need for purification to obtain polymer-grade propylene. (15,16) The mixed propylene/propane feed also provides reaction benefits by volumetrically expanding the reaction mixture to yield gas-expanded liquids (GXLs) with tunable physicochemical properties. Unlike conventional reaction media, the H2/CO ratio in GXL media can be enhanced by simply increasing the partial pressure of propane. (16,17) For rhodium/triphenylphosphine catalyzed propylene hydroformylation performed between 70 and 100 C and pressures up to 2.0 MPa, the n/i aldehyde ratio is increased by up to 45% in propane-expanded liquids (PXLs). (15) Given that the refinery-grade propylene feedstock (55% propylene + 45% propane) costs up to 50% less than polymer-grade propylene, the PXL-based hydroformylation process has potential energy savings and economic/environmental benefits. (18)
This manuscript provides detailed economic and environmental impact analyses of the integrated propane dehydrogenation and propylene hydroformylation process (termed the CEBC-PXL process) and compares the results with those of the conventional process that employs distillation to separate the propane/propylene mixtures to obtain polymer-grade propylene. The quantitative analyses identify key operating factors that affect the economics and environmental impacts and provide valuable guidance for process design and optimization. Analogous comparative analyses have been previously conducted for ethylene and propylene epoxidation, (19) long-chain olefin hydroformylation, (20) terephthalic acid production via spray process, (21) and solid-acid catalyst alkylation processes (22) developed at the CEBC.
Methodology
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The methodological framework for economic and environmental impact assessment is depicted in Figure 1. Three tasks are involved in this method: (1) plant-scale simulations of conventional propylene hydroformylation (PHF) and the CEBC-PXL processes by Aspen Plus software, including the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) step to produce propylene in each case; (2) comparative economic analysis by estimating capital investment and total production cost for each process; and (3) comparative environmental impacts analysis by Economic Input-Output Life Cycle Assessment (EIO-LCA).
Figure 1
Figure 1. Methodological framework for economic and environmental impact assessments of the integrated propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and propylene hydroformylation (PHF).
Process Descriptions
Schematics of the integrated PDH and PHF processes under consideration are shown in Figure 2. The butyraldehyde is produced through an integrated propane dehydrogenation and propylene hydroformylation process with pure propane as the feedstock. The propane dehydrogenation process is based on CB&Is CATOFIN PDH process which converts propane to propylene on Cr-based catalysts. (23) The feed stream to the PDH unit is vaporized by heat exchange with various process streams and then raised to the reaction temperature in the charge heater. The PDH reactor effluent is routed through a feed-effluent exchanger and trim cooler to the compressor. The compressor discharge is cooled and routed to the low-temperature recovery section to reject light ends which are hydrogen rich. (24) In the conventional process, the C3 liquid mixture from the condenser is fed to the distillation column to obtain high purity propylene. The separated (unreacted) propane is recycled back to the PDH reactor. In the CEBC-PXL process, the liquid C3 stream is routed directly to the hydroformylation unit without further purification.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Schematic of integrated propane dehydrogenation and propylene hydroformylation processes. (A) Conventional process with propane/propylene separation by distillation. (B) PXL process without propane/propylene separation.
Process Simulations
Aspen plus V10 software was employed to perform simulations of the integrated PDH and PHF processes. The annual butyraldehyde capacity for the plant scale simulations was set at 300000 tons/year at a 0.9 on-stream factor (i.e., 328 on-stream days). The data for simulating the CATOFIN PDH and conventional PHF process were obtained from literature and patents. (23,24) The data for simulating the PXL process were obtained from laboratory-scale experiments. (15,16) To simplify the process for better convergence, the mass and energy balances for PDH catalyst regeneration were calculated separately. The operating parameters are summarized in Table 1. The reactors in both processes are simulated with RSTOIC reactor model available in Aspen software. The UNIQUAC package available in Aspen software was used to predict the relevant thermodynamic properties, while the PengRobinson equation of state was employed for phase equilibrium modeling. The fluid package employed in this work was validated in a previous thermodynamic study of the propylene hydroformylation system. (16) It was also successfully employed in the sustainability analysis of higher olefin hyroformylation in CO2-expanded liquids. (20) Although a mixture of different light alkanes is used as a raw material in the industrial propane dehydrogenation process, pure propane and syngas with equimolar H2 and CO were assumed in the simulations. Stream information for the conventional and PXL processes are shown in Tables S1 and S2 (Section A of Supporting Information). The process flow diagrams developed for both the processes, with various operating parameters/variables and product specifications as inputs (Figures S1 and S2, Section A of Supporting Information), provide the relevant mass and energy flow rates associated with the process streams. These mass and energy flow rates along with the stream composition information are used in process equipment design and sizing and to perform the economic and environmental impact analyses.
Table 1. Key Operating Parameters for Process Simulations
Butyraldehyde capacity, kiloton/year; Feed 300; 100% Propane
PDH Reactor (Identical for Both Conventional and CEBC-PXL Processes)
Cr2O3/Al2O3, ton 4/25
Operation Temperature/C 600
Operation Pressure/MPa 0.05
Conversion% (propane) 60
Chemo-Selectivity,% 98
Catalyst regeneration temperature/C 690
Catalyst regeneration pressure/MPa 0.2
  Conventional process CEBC-PXL Process
PHF Reactor
Feed Propylene (99.5%) Propylene (60%)
  Propane (40%)
Rhodium, kg 24 24
Ligands, ton 0.75 0.75
Operation Temperature/C 90 90
Operation Pressure/MPa 1.5 2.5
Conversion % (propylene) 95 95
Chemo-selectivity, % 99 100
Regio-selectivity, % 97 96
Economic Analysis
Comparative economic analyses were performed by estimating total capital investment (TCI) and total production cost (TPC) for each process. The consumption of utilities and chemicals was estimated from the process simulations. The capital investment is estimated following the percentage of purchased-equipment cost method. The purchased equipment costs are estimated based on attributes such as equipment size, the material of construction, weight or surface area. (25) Other direct and indirect costs are estimated by multiplying the purchased equipment cost by a weighting factor. The costs associated with utilities, raw materials and labor were obtained from various sources. (2628) All the costs were adjusted to February 2017 figures using the Chemical Engineering Plant Cost Index (CEPCI). (29) Further, the impact of single-pass propylene conversion in PXL process on the operating costs was analyzed through a sensitivity analysis.
Life Cycle Analysis
The environmental impacts of the conventional and PXL process were estimated by the EIO-LCA method. (3032) It is a life cycle assessment tool that estimates the material and energy resources required for, and the associated environmental emissions resulting from, activities in our economy. (33,34) The use of input-output models is advantageous since they take into account the entire supply chain for a product (including indirect suppliers), thus tracking the full range of inputs to a process and providing a complete system boundary. (35)
In this work, the online EIO-LCA tool developed by the Green Design Institute at Carnegie Mellon University was used to perform the analysis. (36) The greenhouse gas emissions, air pollutant emissions, and toxics release associated with both the conventional and PXL processes were estimated and compared.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Total Capital Investment (TCI)
Figure 3 shows the purchased costs of major equipment in both processes. Table S3 (Section B of Supporting Information) compares the capital investments for both conventional and PXL processes. Details of the contribution of each component to the TCI are listed in Table S4 (Section B of Supporting Information). The estimated purchased equipment cost associated with the conventional process is approximately 20% greater than that of the PXL process. Because of the need for relatively large propane/propylene distillation columns (diameter = 10 m, height = 80 m, number = 2), the separation equipment alone contributes more than 50% of the total cost in the conventional process and is three times more expensive compared to the PXL process.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Comparison of purchased equipment costs for conventional and PXL processes.
Total Production Cost (TPC)
The annual total production cost (TPC) and its contributors are shown in Table S5. Details of raw material/utility costs and the breakdown of the various production costs are provided in Tables S6 and S7 (Section C of Supporting Information) and Table S8 (Section D of Supporting Information), respectively. The raw material cost is identical and contributes more than 60% of the TPC in both processes. The breakdown of utility costs for both processes is shown in Figure 4. High-pressure (HP) steam and electricity account for a major part (>90%) of the utility costs. Note that the estimated cost of HP steam in the PXL process (without the need for C3 distillation columns) is 50% less than the conventional process, resulting in a  22% cost savings in overall utility costs.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Comparison of annual utility costs for conventional and PXL processes.
Effect of Single-Pass Propylene Conversion on TPC of the PXL Process
A sensitivity analysis on TPC was performed with various single-pass propylene conversions in the PXL process at fixed chemoselectivity. As expected, higher single-pass conversions increase cost savings (Figure 5). Any unreacted propylene recycled back with propane to the PDH reactor increases the operating costs. Note that the TPC of the PXL process is lower than the conventional process (where the propylene conversion is 95%) even when the single-pass propylene conversion is 89%.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Single-pass PHF conversion sensitivity analysis in PXL process.
Environmental Impact Analysis
The estimates of greenhouse gas emission, air pollutants emission, and toxics release associated capital investments are summarized in Figure 6. The EIO sectors used for assessing the major categories of the capital and production costs are detailed in Tables S9 and S10 (Section E of the Supporting Information). Details for each environmental impact category are listed in Tables S11S13 (Section F of the Supporting Information). The greenhouse gas emissions that were taken into account included CO2, methane, N2O and high global warming potentials (GWP) gases such as hydrofluorocarbon and perfluorocarbon. The total CO2 equivalent emissions (i.e., CO2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion sources and those from sources other than fossil fuel combustion) from the conventional process are 20% greater than the PXL process (Figure 6a). As inferred from Figures 6b and 7c, the environmental burdens from air pollutants and toxic releases are also lower for the PXL process reflecting the lower energy use in the PXL process compared to the conventional process.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Comparison of environmental impact analysis associated with major capital investment items (a) gas emissions, (b) air pollutants emissions, (c) toxics release.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Comparison of environmental impact analysis associated with major production categories (a) gas emissions, (b) air pollutants emissions, (c) toxics release.
A comparison of environmental impacts associated with the production of the raw materials and the products in the conventional and PXL processes are shown in Figure 7. The estimated contributions from each environmental impact category are listed in Tables S14S16 (Section F of Supporting Information). In comparison to the conventional process, there is no significant difference in CO2 emission equivalents (primary contributor to greenhouse gas emissions category), SO2 emission (primary contributor to air pollutants emission category), and toxic release to land (primary contributor to air toxic release) for the PXL process. This is because the manufacture of the raw materials (propylene, syngas, and catalysts) is the primary contributor to all the environmental impact categories and the raw material usage is identical for both processes. This shows that a major impact in reducing the overall environmental impacts can be achieved only by reducing the upstream burden.
Analysis Limitations and Future Opportunities
In this study, identical feeds (pure propane and syngas with equimolar H2 and CO) were assumed in the simulations. In the industrial propane dehydrogenation process, however, a mixture of different light alkanes is used as feed. Given that alkanes are inert to hydroformylation, the main effect will be that the alkenes produced in the dehydrogenation reactor will form the corresponding aldehydes in the hydroformylation step. This could be a potential advantage of the PXL process. The results presented here justify systematic experimental investigations of the effect of mixed alkane/olefin feedstock on the PXL process.
Conventional propylene/propane splitters were utilized when simulating the conventional process. Several alternative techniques have been recently proposed to reduce the energy intensity of C3-splitters, including extractive distillation, (37) membrane separation, (38) adsorption, (39) and hybrid designs that combine different separation technologies like hybrid membrane distillation (40) and hybrid distillationpervaporation schemes. (41) For instance, pressure vacuum swing adsorption technology is reported to reduce capital costs by 58.1% and operating costs by 49.2%, (42) while vapor recompression and self-heat technology is reported to reduce capital cost by 54.6% and operating cost by 54.7%. (43) Despite these advances, conventional distillation remains the primary method by which propylene and propane are currently separated in industry.
To the best of our knowledge, we are unaware of integrated propane dehydrogenation and propylene hydroformylation processes for butyraldehyde production. In the Dow hydroformylation process, a part of the polymer-grade propylene (used as feedstock for polypropylene) is also used as hydroformylation feedstock to produce butyraldehyde. The proposed PXL process will be particularly attractive for manufacturers who wish to primarily produce linear aldehydes and linear alcohols from alkanes (such as in natural gas liquids).
Currently, only a few governments have mandated carbon tax as incentives to curb greenhouse gas emissions. (4446) If alternate technologies demonstrate realistic potential for reduction in carbon footprint, public policy may incentivize such technologies by levying carbon tax on conventional technologies. Clearly, any future carbon tax will further increase the profit margin of the PXL process.
Conclusion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Comparative economic analyses of the integrated propane dehydrogenation and propylene hydroformylation process (PXL process) show an approximately 20% savings in capital investment compared to the conventional process that includes energy-intensive distillation to obtain polymer-grade propylene from propane/propylene mixtures. The elimination of C3 distillation columns reduces the utility cost in the PXL process by 20% compared to that of the conventional process, resulting in 9% annual savings in total production cost. This translates to a savings of 4 cents/kg of butyraldehyde produced or an annual savings of  $12 M in a 300 kt/yr plant. Comparative environmental impact analyses performed by the EIO-LCA method show that the gate-to-gate environmental impacts (greenhouse gas emission, air pollutant emissions and toxic release) associated with the PXL process are significantly lower than the conventional process because of much lower material and energy consumption in the PXL process. However, when considering cradle-to-gate emissions, the environmental impacts are almost similar. This is a reflection of the fact that upstream processes involving the production of the raw materials (whose consumption in both processes is similar) impose the dominant environmental burden.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 