I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Data-Driven Interpretable Descriptors for the StructureActivity Relationship of Surface Lattice Oxygen on Doped Vanadium Oxides
Graphical Abstract
Data-driven interpretable descriptors were constructed to predict the redox activity of surface lattice oxygen on doped vanadium oxides by combining density functional theory (DFT) and machine learning (ML). Based on descriptors, physical insights into the structureactivity relationships were obtained and further guided the experimental verification of efficient redox catalysts for chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation (CL-ODH) of propane.
Abstract
Understanding the structureactivity relationship of surface lattice oxygen is critical but challenging to design efficient redox catalysts. This paper describes data-driven redox activity descriptors on doped vanadium oxides combining density functional theory and interpretable machine learning. We corroborate that the p-band center is the most crucial feature for the activity. Besides, some features from the coordination environment, including unoccupied d-band center, s- and d-band fillings, also play important roles in tuning the oxygen activity. Further analysis reveals that data-driven descriptors could decode more information about electron transfer during the redox process. Based on the descriptors, we report that atomic Re- and W-doping could inhibit over-oxidation in the chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, which is verified by subsequent experiments and calculations. This work sheds light on the structureactivity relationship of lattice oxygen for the rational design of redox catalysts.
Introduction
Surface oxygen chemistry plays a critical role in metal oxide-catalyzed selective oxidation and combustion.1 An important example is that surface lattice oxygen on metal oxides provides exciting opportunities for propane dehydrogenation to produce propylene, an important chemical building block in the modern chemical industry.2 However, despite propane non-oxidative dehydrogenation (PDH) being an industrial technology, PDH suffers many limitations, including equilibrium-limited reaction and coking deactivation.3 In contrast, these drawbacks do not limit oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). However, conventional ODH with oxidant co-feeds (mainly gaseous oxygen) suffers from a safety risk4 and severe over-oxidation to COx.5 Therefore, industrial practices for conventional ODH are hampered by low propylene selectivity despite decades of research.6
A promising technology providing an efficient and safe redox process is chemical looping.4, 7 In particular, chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation (CL-ODH) shows many advantages over conventional ODH. The overall CL-ODH follows the analogous MvK mechanism,8 decoupling the oxidation reaction into a cyclic redox process with temporal and spatial separation. In the reduction stage, propane avoids direct contact with gaseous oxygen, utilizing the lattice oxygen of a redox metal oxide catalyst (or oxygen carrier) as oxidants, thus minimizing safety risks.9 In the re-oxidation stage, the reduced catalyst is sent to the oxidation regeneration reactor to replenish the lost lattice oxygen through gaseous oxygen (Scheme1a).9b In recent studies, VOx-based redox catalysts have been shown to be promising redox catalysts for CL-ODH of ethane10 and propane.7c, 7d Our previous work shows that during the reduction stage of CL-ODH, VOx undergoes a phase transformation on losing lattice oxygen (Scheme1b).7d In the CL-ODH process of propane, the following reactions may occur at the reduction stage:
Scheme 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. a)Reduction and re-oxidation reaction stage in CL-ODH. Redox catalysts are represented by VOx. b)Redox cycle for VOx phase transformation in CL-ODH. The red and gray spheres represent oxygen and vanadium atoms, respectively.
I: Oxidative dehydrogenation (Major reaction)
(1)
II: Over oxidation (Major side reaction)
(2)
III: Nonoxidative dehydrogenation (Minor reaction)
(3)
IV: Coking formation (Minor side reaction)
(4)
Like traditional ODH technology, a challenge for redox catalysts in CL-ODH is to inhibit over-oxidation. Much previous research reported that doping might significantly change the performance of redox catalysts,7d, 7e, 11 thereby providing more possibilities to inhibit over-oxidation. Besides, for the rational design of redox catalysts, a fundamental understanding of the structureactivity relationship for the redox process is required. Therefore, unraveling the structureactivity relationship of surface lattice oxygen by the modulation of doping is the core topic of this study.
Due to the limited information, traditional approaches driven by chemical intuition usually could not show a comprehensive picture to uncover the structureactivity relationships. In recent years, interpretable machine learning (IML)12 has paved a new avenue to accelerate the study of heterogeneous catalysts. Unlike classical black-box models (e.g., artificial neural networks), IML may uncover possible physical insights underlying raw input data and make the obtained models more practical and credible in similar systems. Recently, an IML algorithm based on compressed sensing and symbolic regression, sure independence screening and sparsifying operator (SISSO),13 has been developed and employed to identify the best low-dimension descriptors. SISSO may obtain the best descriptors after exploring the huge feature space constructed by combining physical features with iterating user-defined mathematical operators.14 Therefore, SISSO provides a promising data-driven approach to generating knowledge about structureactivity relationships.
This work aims to obtain data-driven interpretable descriptors decoding the structureactivity relationship of the surface lattice oxygen on transition metal oxides combining DFT and IML. Generally, the activity of lattice oxygen is determined by the specific properties of lattice oxygen and its coordination environment in concert. It is difficult for one single feature to show the whole structureactivity relationship. However, the data-driven descriptors in this work could predict the activity of lattice oxygen in various coordination environments with better accuracy while revealing various influencing factors and intrinsic correlations. Besides, we identified some key electronic features governing redox activity based on data-driven descriptors. As practical cases in designing effective redox catalysts based on data-driven descriptors, we reported W and Re as favorable dopants inhibiting over-oxidation in CL-ODH. Subsequent experiments further confirmed the descriptor-based predictions and findings.
Results and Discussion
There are three distinctive surface lattice oxygen species on V2O5 (001) (FigureS1). Terminal OI (V=O) is generally the most active site responsible for combustion or selective oxidation.7g, 15 It is imperative to determine the thermodynamically stable M-doped V2O5 (001). We calculated the minimal doping formation energy (DFE) after considering all possible doping sites on the surface and subsurface (Figure1). A detailed discussion on the reasons for favorable and unfavorable dopings is shown in FigureS2 and TableS1. The results show that the elements adjacent to V, including W, Mo, Ta, Re, and Nb, are most likely to be exothermic when replacing V in the lattice. These results lay a solid theoretical foundation for the experimental synthesis of catalysts and the selection of rational models in this work.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Minimal doping formation energy with 0.2eV (common DFT errors) for all d-group transition metal doped V2O5 (001). Possible doping sites labelled by numbers (14) include all non-equivalent sites at the surface or subsurface.
Previous DFT, microkinetic, and experimental studies on propane dehydrogenation have demonstrated that the first step of CH bond activation on methylene of propane is the rate-determining step (RDS) of the overall reaction.16 However, the search for transition state structures is time-consuming, which seriously hinders evaluating CH bond activation on lattice oxygen for many redox catalyst surfaces. Therefore, researchers expect to find a simple yet accurate descriptor as an alternative to CH bond activation energy. Nrskov and co-workers proposed that hydrogen affinity (EH) is one universal and simple descriptor to predict CH bond activation for a large variety of materials.17 We also perform the chemical bonding analysis and test calculations to confirm that EH is a suitable activity descriptor for the considered systems in this work (FigureS3). The activity dataset is shown in TableS2.
To investigate the structureactivity relationship of surface lattice oxygen, we calculated the primary physics-informed features of lattice oxygen and all-metal atoms around its nearest coordination layer by DFT (Table1). The complete structureactivity dataset can be divided into a training set (75%) and a test set (25%). The training set is responsible for the training descriptor/model, while the test set is only used to test the predictive performance of the descriptors. We expect to obtain physical insights from these interpretable descriptors into what primary features of catalysts drive the targeted tuning of lattice oxygen activity (Scheme2).
Table 1. DFT-derived primary catalyst features used for machine learning.
Type
Primary feature
Abbreviation[a]
Oxygen
Metal[b]
Site
Band center
Band width
Band skewness
Band kurtosis
Band filling
Bader charge
Surface
Work function
WF
[a]x means orbitals: for O, x includes s and p; for M, x includes s, p, and d. [b]M denotes the average feature of all coordination metals around the considered lattice oxygen. In addition, consider the unoccupied d-band center ( ) for metals.
Scheme 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Workflow from data to knowledge by interpretable data-driven descriptors. CV10 means 10-fold cross-validation.
The iteration number of primary features in a single descriptor trained by SISSO is defined as the complexity (phi). The number of linear combinations of different descriptors is defined as dimensionality (D). Firstly, we trained the activity descriptors or models. The fitting performance regarding root means square errors (RMSEs) for best descriptors is shown in Figure2a. Highly complex models may suffer from severe overfitting to lose generalization due to the including too much noise data. The overfitted models or descriptors achieve very high fitting accuracy in the training set but poor prediction performance beyond the training set. To determine the optimal D and phi, we performed CV10 to test the overfitting of the models using the mean RMSE of the validation sets (Figure2b and TableS3). The descriptor model starts showing obvious overfitting when phi=2 and D=5. Therefore, the 4D (phi=2) descriptor model was the most appropriate. This model (TableS4 and S5) is a linear combination of four different descriptors (phi=2) with high fitting accuracy (RMSE= 0.09eV) for EH in the training set.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Refined structureactivity descriptors or models for M-doped (M=Mo, Nb, Re, Ta, W) V2O5 (001) by SISSO. a)Training RMSE for best descriptors with different dimensions and complexities. b)CV10 for every dimension and complexity. c)Top 10 primary features ranking. d)The best 1D descriptor with different complexities. The fitting performance and errors distribution for classical descriptor (e) and data-driven descriptor(f). SD(EH) indicates the standard deviation for EH and is commonly used as a reference for improved RMSE of descriptors.
To show the importance of different primary features, we ranked the top 10 primary features according to the absolute value of Pearson's correlation coefficients for EH (Figure2c and TableS6). Among them, the p-band center of lattice oxygen is the most crucial feature (Pearson r=0.71), which is also the traditional electronic structure descriptor of oxygen activity reported in previous literature.18
Furthermore, we also summarize the best 1D descriptors (phi=0, 1, and 2) (Figure2d), which have simple forms and are easy to interpret and generalize. The top10 1D (phi=1 and 2) descriptors are listed in TableS7 and TableS8. Most of them combine and other primary features of coordinated metal cations. These data-driven descriptors all have better correlations with EH than the . Among them, the best 1D descriptor (phi=1) is found as:
(5)
with r=0.82. This descriptor indicates that the coordinated metal's unoccupied d-band center is a key complementary feature. It is also worth noting that the second-highest ranking descriptor is found as:
(6)
with r=0.77. This descriptor was ever proposed in a previous study on the oxygen evolution reaction for oxide catalysts and interpreted as charge transfer energy (CTE) from to the of metal.19 This suggests that combinations of different primary features from lattice oxygen and its coordination environment may create new physically meaningful descriptors to reveal a deeper structureactivity relationship.
Similarly, the best 1D descriptor (phi=2) is of the form as:
(7)
with r=0.85. Besides and the , it also contains the difference between s-band filling ( ) and d-band filling ( ) of the coordinated metals.
The best data-driven 1D descriptors (phi=0, 1, and 2) remain constant across different training sets during CV10, implying that the obtained descriptors are stable and repeatable. We compare the fitting performances of the typical descriptor (Figure2e) and the data-driven 4D (phi=2) model (Figure2f and TableS9). The model has improved performance in all aspects. Scrutiny reveals that higher prediction accuracy from the 4D (phi=2) descriptor model includes finer statistical features such as the s-, p-, and d-band centers for metals and s-band center and p-band skewness for lattice oxygen. This comprehensive descriptor model can provide an overall descriptive understanding of the structureactivity relationship. Nevertheless, it also becomes difficult to explain intuitively due to its intrinsically complex logic.
The prediction performances of the best data-driven 1D descriptor (phi=0, 1, and 2) and 4D model (phi=2) on the test set are presented in TableS10. All data-driven descriptors or models have a good predictive ability on the test set. Interestingly, the 1D (phi=2) descriptor (MAE=0.24eV) has almost the same prediction performance as the 4D (phi=2) model (MAE=0.23eV), which may imply that the simpler 1D (phi=2) descriptor already has shown the comparable prediction accuracy with higher dimensional models for the data outside the training set. Therefore, the simpler descriptor is preferred in the following discussion.
We chose the undoped, Re-, and W-doped surfaces for the case study to understand the structureactivity relationship behind the data-driven descriptors. The charge-density difference diagrams (Figure3a, all other M-doped surfaces are shown in FigureS5) show that there are two parts of the electrons transfer for hydrogen adsorption on the lattice oxygen:
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Physical insights for the structureactivity relationship. a)Charge-density difference diagrams for hydrogen adsorption model. b)Projected density of states (DOS) for lattice oxygen and metal cations. I, II, and IIIrepresent the undoped, Re- and W-doped V2O5 (001).
PartI: The lattice oxygen accepts electrons from H.
PartII: The coordination environment of lattice oxygen accepts electrons.
Based on the Bader charge analysis before and after hydrogen adsorption (TableS11), the H atom loses 0.630.74 electrons after adsorption, of which 6080% is localized in the lattice oxygen, and the remaining is transferred to the oxygen coordination environment making the metal cations reduced. This fact indicates the structureactivity relationship should be interpreted based on the contributions from both the active center (lattice oxygen) and its coordination environment.
The and the EH show a negative correlation (r=0.71), which means the closer to the Fermi level the p-band center is, the stronger hydrogen adsorption is.21 Analogous to the physical explanation of the d-band center of a metal or alloy surfaces,22 the may describe the covalent attraction due to the hybridization between adsorbate's orbital and lattice oxygen's p-states and thus may be associated with the partI of electron transfer from the hydrogen atom to the lattice oxygen. The rediscovery data-driven descriptor, CTE, could mainly describe partII of electron transfer. (Figure3b).
However, when comparing the EH and of Re=O and W=O, we found a contradictory fact that although of W=O is closer to the Fermi level, the H adsorption is weaker at W=O (Figure3a-II and -III). When of the metal cations are taken into consideration (Figure3b), CTEs on Re=O (5.45eV) and W=O (5.69eV) could explain this anomaly correctly, which suggests that the part II of electron transfer governs the difference of EH between W=O and Re=O.
In addition to CTE, the best data-driven 1D (phi=1 and 2) descriptors could also predict the activity at M=O (M includes V, W, and Re) correctly (FigureS6). We compare the correlation of the best data-driven 1D descriptors (phi=0, 1, 2) with EH (Figure4a). There are negative correlations between the descriptors and EH. Based on the projected density of states (PDOS) of the atoms (Figure4b), we proposed one hypothesis (Figure4c) that the physical meaning of lies in measuring the difficulty of transferring electrons from the Fermi level to fill the d-band. A smaller shows an easier part II of electron transfer. Therefore, the data-driven 1D (phi=1) descriptor ( ) contains more information about the redox process. The smaller absolute values suggest the overall electron transfer is easier and thus has a stronger adsorption.
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)The correlation between data-driven descriptors with different complexity (phi=0, 1, 2, left to right) and EH. b)The proposed redox two-step electron transfer model is based on the projected density of states (PDOS). c)The proposed interpretation of data-driven 1D descriptors with different complexity (phi=0, 1, and 2).
Data-driven 1D (phi=2) descriptor ] also shows that the difference between s- and d-band filling of metals ( ) is another vital addition to the 1D (phi=1) descriptor. Statistical analysis of the fillings in the s- and d-bands (FiguresS7S9) shows that the s-bands are generally well filled (around 8095%), while the d-bands are poorly filled (only 3050%), which reinforces that the electrons will mainly fill the d-bands rather than the s-bands. The difference between both can be interpreted as one driving force for electron transfer from the p-band of oxygen to the d-band of the metal. We correlated CTE and for all M=O in the training set (FigureS10) and then found a strong negative correlation (Pearson's r=0.82), suggesting that when the d-band filling is approximately lower (or the s-band filling is higher), the easier the part II of electron transfer is.
The above discussion reveals the theoretical value of the data-driven interpretable descriptors in uncovering structureactivity relationships. Next, we wish to show the practical values of data-driven descriptors in designing efficient redox catalysts that inhibit over-oxidation by tuning lattice oxygen activity.
To inhibit over-oxidation, we must investigate how to measure the trends of over-oxidation of lattice oxygen. However, over-oxidation reactions involve far more complex reaction networks that are being debated,16d and the detailed discussion is out of the scope of this work. Here, we propose a simplified parallel and competitive pathway for ODH and over-oxidation reactions (Scheme3), in which CH3CO*CH3 is regarded as the essential precursor for COx based on the previous reports.15, 16d, 23 Methyl (CH3) is a critical intermediate produced by the CC bond cleavage (one required step to produce COx) from propane or propylene. The adsorption energy of methyl (CH3) was found as a generic and simple descriptor with a strong correlation to the adsorption energies for other key intermediate species (CH3CO*CH3, C*, and CO*) in the over-oxidation reaction (Scheme3). We used M-doped V2O5 (001) (M includes ten dopants from 3d, 4d, and 5d group metals) to test the correlation for adsorption energy between CH3 and CH3C*CH3 (R2=0.98, FigureS11), C* (R2=0.99, FigureS12) and CO* (R2=0.98, FigureS13).
Scheme 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Simplified reaction pathway for ODH and over-oxidation for propane.
The reducibility of oxides is often quantified by the oxygen vacancy formation energy ( ).24 Also, the formation of oxygen vacancies is necessary to produce H2O (one required product of ODH) and the products of over-oxidation (Scheme3). More exothermic methyl adsorption ( ) and mean the stronger the adsorption of intermediates of over-oxidation and the easier the desorption of over-oxidation products (CxHyO) from surfaces, leaving oxygen vacancy formation, thus resulting in easier over-oxidation. We calculated and at M=O on M-doped V2O5 (001) (M includes all d-group metals, Figure5a). A solid linear positive correlation (R2=0.91) was found between and . As a result, dopants in the lower-left region tend to improve over-oxidation, whereas those in the upper right region tend to inhibit over-oxidation.
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Theoretical calculation of doping effects on lattice oxygen activity. a)Doping effects for surface lattice oxygens on M-doped V2O5 (001) for over-oxidation and CH bond activation. Bold labels indicate dopants with favorable formations. b)Prediction about redox activity of lattice oxygen from data-driven 1D (phi=2) descriptor.
The data-driven descriptors describe the redox activity of lattice oxygen well at the electronic structure level and could assist in designing redox catalysts more efficiently. For example, the data-driven 1D (phi=2) descriptor shows the redox activity of different M=O (Figure5b) and finds that Re, Mo, and W are the three possible dopants to inhibit the redox activity compared with V=O, which is qualitatively consistent with the results in Figure5a. More importantly, the data-driven descriptor provides a solid physical basis for the results. Among the three dopants, the doping effect of Mo has been confirmed by our previous work.7d With the physically interpretable descriptor-assisted design, we report Re and W as favorable dopants to show inhibiting effects on the redox activity of lattice oxygen like Mo.
We further designed experiments to verify our predictive results. To begin with, we synthesized the undoped VOx, and W- and Re-doped VOx catalysts supported on aluminum oxide and tested the CL-ODH performance (Figure6 and FigureS14). At the initial stage of the reaction (within 1min), the complete oxidation of propane occurs mainly at the undoped VOx sample with almost no selectivity for propylene (1%), while the W- and Re-doped VOx catalysts could exhibit higher propylene selectivity (3643%) due to the inhibition of over-oxidation at the same time. At the 3rdmin, the W- and Re-doped samples could achieve the highest 28.7% and 33.6% instantaneous total yield (including coking) of propylene, respectively (6.411.3% higher than the total yield at the undoped VOx).
Figure 6
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Experimental product profiles over the undoped VOx, W-doped VOx (V/W=6), and Re-doped VOx (V/Re=6). Other products mainly include cracking products (C1 and C2) and coking. Instantaneous performance at the a)1st and b)3rdmin. Reaction conditions: T=525C, 1.2atm total pressure, p(C3H8)/ p(N2)= 4:17, 0.5g sample.
Based on the H2O/H2 plot (FigureS15) during the reaction, we can roughly divide the reaction into three different stages:
StageI: ODH and over-oxidation dominating (within 5mins).
StageII: ODH and PDH mixing (from the 5th to 10thmin).
StageIII: PDH dominating (after 10mins).
In particular, within 3mins, the undoped VOx had a low ODH percentage due to severe over-oxidation, while the dopings of W and Re enhanced the ODH performance by suppressing the over-oxidation. Besides, the instantaneous performance of the 3rdminute exhibited higher propane conversion (30%) and propylene yield (7%) compared with the PDH-dominating (FigureS14), which may indicate the thermodynamically unlimited ODH process is responsible for the enhanced performance. In addition, the formation of propane cracking products (C2 and C1 products) and the coking are weak during the reaction due to lattice oxygen involvement and relatively low reaction temperature. The carbon balance is over 96%. Compared with the performance of some conventional ODH (FigureS16), the Re- and W-doped VOx redox catalysts in this work showed very high selectivity to propylene in the CL-ODH at a comparable conversion of propane.
We performed some characterizations to verify the structures of the redox catalysts. The crystallinity and surface morphology of undoped, W- and Re-doped VOx redox catalysts were investigated by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), selected area electron diffraction (SAED), elemental energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), and X-ray diffraction (XRD) techniques (Figure7, FigureS17). EDS mappings show the uniform dispersion of V and doping elements (W and Re). TEM, SEAD and X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns confirm the single-crystal V2O5 and the predominantly exposed (001) crystal plane, which further confirms the rationality of the theoretical models in this work. The dopings of Re and W with slightly larger ionic radii will cause a slight change in the lattice constant of V2O5, which is reflected in minor peak shifts in the XRD patterns (Figure7g,h).
Figure 7
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Characterization of the morphology, ultrastructure and surface elements of redox catalysts. ac)TEM images for undoped, W-doped, and Re-doped VOx (V:W or V:Re=6:1), respectively. d) SAED image for undoped VOx sample. e and f) Elemental EDS mappings for W- and Re-doped VOx samples. g and h) XRD patterns for samples. h) The enlarged image of the red selected part in image (g).
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) of V 2p3/2 (Figure8a) shows that V5+ dominates the surface of doped and undoped VOx/Al2O3, while the dopings of W and Re result in the reduction of V5+ on the surface partially and thus an increase in the proportion of V4+ or V3+. XPS spectra (FigureS18) for dopants (W and Re) indicate that W6+ and Re6+ dominate the surface of redox catalysts. Therefore, the transfer of electrons from dopants with higher oxidation states (W6+ and Re6+) to surface V5+ cations leads to the observed partial reduction of V5+. Besides, Bader charge analysis (Figure8b) further confirms that the doping elements (W and Re) show more positive charges (+0.42 to +0.60) than V atoms on undoped V2O5 (001), and the positive charge of V atoms around the local environment of doping atoms is slightly reduced (0.06 to 0.08). These simulations and experimental results corroborate each other to confirm the replacement of surface lattice V due to the atomical dopings of W and Re.
Figure 8
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)V 2p3/2 XPS spectra for undoped, W- and Re-doped VOx samples. b)Average Bader charge analysis for surface V atom and dopants. c)In situ thermogravimetric (TG) and differential thermogravimetric (dTG) profiles. I, II, and III represent the undoped, W- and Re-doped VOx samples.
To demonstrate the direct modulation of the lattice oxygen activity, we performed in situ thermogravimetric (TG) tests on the undoped, and W- and Re-doped VOx (Figure8c). The TG profile shows that 3.944.49% weight loss is observed due to the loss of lattice oxygen. Compared to undoped VOx, the dopings of W and Re result in the obvious suppression of lattice oxygen losing rate, which is also confirmed by the differential thermogravimetric (dTG) curve (inset image in Figure8c). It is worth mentioning that the W doping has a stronger suppressing effect on the overall lattice oxygen activity than Re doping, which is consistent with the prediction from the data-driven descriptor (Figure5b). The above results confirm that the overall lattice oxygen activity is inhibited due to the W and Re dopings.
Based on the Gibbs's free energy calculation at the reaction conditions, we tried to explain the detailed mechanisms of the doping effect on the suppression of over-oxidation. We calculated the first step of CH bond activation of propane and the subsequent generation of acetone (the precursor of over-oxidation) and propylene on the undoped, W- and Re-doped V2O5 (001) (Figure9, and the details are shown in TableS12). Since the redox activities of both W=O and Re=O are lower than that of V=O, the first step of CH bond activation of propane occurs on V=O at all the considered surfaces. The free energy barriers of the first step of the CH bond activation on the W- and Re-doped V2O5 (001) are slightly higher than that of undoped V2O5 (001), which explains the lower overall activity due to W and Re doping at the early stage of the experiment. However, the free energy barriers of the second CH bond activation to produce propylene and acetone were significantly elevated due to W- and Re-doping. For the second step of dehydrogenation from the adsorbed C3H7* to the adsorbed acetone (CH3CO*CH3), the free energy barriers are 0.33 and 0.72eV higher for W- and Re-doped V2O5 (001) than the undoped V2O5 (001), which demonstrates the kinetic nature of W- and Re-doping to weaken the over-oxidation.
Figure 9
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Proposed reaction pathway and calculated Gibbs's free energy [T=525C, P(C3H8) =0.23atm] for propylene and over-oxidation precursor (acetone) generation on a)undoped, b)W-doped, and c)Re-doped V2O5 (001).
Besides a few dopants (like Re, Mo, and W) inhibiting the activity, our calculations (Figure5) also predict some dopants further enhancing the redox activity of surface lattice oxygen on V2O5 (001). We have also done some experimental verifications. Experimentally, choosing Fe as the dopant, we synthesized and tested the initial CL-ODH performance of Fe-doped VOx using the same methods and conditions. The results show that, similar to undoped vanadium oxides, Fe-doped VOx also exhibits severe over-oxidation within the initial 3minutes (FigureS19a). The in situ dTG curve of Fe-doped VOx shows a maximum oxygen loss rate of 0.28mgmin1, higher than on undoped VOx (0.25mgmin1), which is the direct evidence of an improving effect on lattice oxygen redox activity (FigureS19b and TableS13). Besides, previous experimental reports also partially support our predictions. For example, based on our data-driven descriptor, the atomic-level doping of Nb may activate lattice oxygen and thus further enhance over-oxidation. N. Ballarini etal. reported at 550C, VNbO4 and VNbO5 are not good catalysts for ODH of propane, as they exhibit very low propylene selectivity due to severe over-oxidation.25 Grzybowska etal. studied the effect of adding Nb to supported vanadium oxides and observed enhanced activity during propane ODH reaction.26
Conclusion
This work constructs some novel electronic descriptors for predicting the redox activity for surface lattice oxygen on doped VOx through a data-driven approach combining interpretable machine learning (SISSO) and DFT. We identify the p-band center of lattice oxygen as the most important electronic structure feature concerning redox activity. Some features from the coordination environment, such as unoccupied d-band center, s-band filling, and d-band filling, also play key roles in tuning lattice oxygen activity. The data-driven approach gives electronic structure descriptors with closed-form expressions by combining these primary features. Further analysis reveals that the data-driven descriptors can explain more information about electron transfer during the redox process and thus decode the deep structureactivity relationship combining lattice oxygen and its coordination environment. The atomic dopings of Re, Mo, and W are predicted to show inhibiting effects on over-oxidation of CL-ODH of propane on VOx based on data-driven descriptors. Through detailed DFT calculations and experiments, we demonstrate that W and Re indeed suppressed the over-oxidation at the initial stage in CL-ODH compared to the undoped VOx, thus enhancing the overall selectivity and yield of propylene.
The data-driven research framework provides new avenues for generating knowledge from data directly and decoding underlying physical insights about the structureactivity relationship of materials. Furthermore, due to low computational costs and better predictive performance, these descriptors (models) are promising tools for designing redox catalysts.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 