 <quotes>

1. "BS-1 catalyst was identified by x-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern and N2 sorption isotherms, exhibiting typical characteristics in its MFI structure (figs. S1 and S2)." 

2. "A scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of the BS-1 catalyst showed an average zeolite crystal size of 350 nm (fig. S3)."

3. "Energy dispersive spectroscopic elemental maps of the BS-1 catalyst revealed uniform distribution of boron species on the silica matrix (fig. S5)."

4. "X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and inductively coupled plasma (ICP) analysis showed undetectable metal species (fig. S6), which excludes the suspected contribution of impurities on catalytic activity."

5. "For comparison, we also loaded the boron species on S-1 zeolite (B/S-1) and amorphous silica (B/SiO2) by impregnation (fig. S7), with Si/B ratios of 50 and 66, respectively."

6. "No relevant quotes"

7. "No relevant quotes" 

8. "No relevant quotes"

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1. Answer: The article describes using x-ray diffraction and N2 sorption isotherms to characterize the MFI structure of the BS-1 zeolite synthesized to contain isolated boron sites. It also used SEM to show the BS-1 crystals were 350 nm in size, and EDS mapping to show uniform boron dispersion.

2. Answer: The article does not evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolites.

3. Answer: The article describes impregnating boron species onto S-1 zeolite and amorphous silica supports to optimize dispersion. 

4. Answer: The article does not utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts.

5. Answer: The article does not employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces. 

6. Answer: The article does not use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during catalysis.

7. Answer: The article does not evaluate different reactor types for propane dehydrogenation.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1. 答:该文介绍了使用X射线衍射和N2吸附等温线表征合成所得含有隔离硼位点BS-1沸石的 MFI 结构。它还使用 SEM 显示 BS-1 晶体的大小为 350 nm,并使用 EDS 映射显示均匀的硼分散。

2. 答:该文没有评估沸石中金属的封装。

3. 答:该文介绍了在 S-1 沸石和无定形二氧化硅载体上浸渍硼化物种,以优化分散。

4. 答:该文没有利用任何原位表征技术来研究工作中的丙烷脱氢催化剂。

5. 答:该文没有采用先进的显微技术来表征金属与载体的界面。

6. 答:该文没有采用 X 射线技术来探测催化过程中的氧化态变化。

7. 答:该文没有评估不同反应器类型在丙烷脱氢方面的应用。

</Chinese version answer>
