<DOCUMENT>
Catalyst design and tuning for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane – A review
Highlights
•
Strategies of tuning catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).
•
Nature of active sites, probing active sites, site isolation, and site accessibility.
•
Role of key catalytic properties - oxygen vacancy, reducibility, metal-support interaction, acidity and basicity.
•
Rational design of novel catalysts and establishment of property-activity relationshipsvia accelerated catalyst discovery.
1. Introduction
As major platform chemicals in the petrochemical industry, light olefins such as ethylene and propylene are extensively used in organic and polymer synthesis, and their annual global production are 160 and 110 mega tons respectively [1]. Fig. 1 depicts the major chemical derivatives obtained from propylene [2]. They are currently produced industrially via steam or thermal cracking of naphtha, and fluid catalytic cracking of oil-based feedstocks. However, these processes are thermodynamically limited, energy intensive, generate coke heavily and demand complex separation of products [3]. As such, the search for alternative routes remained indispensable, especially with the high production of shale gas and natural gas, coupled with the fast depletion of light oil reserves globally. In addition, direct dehydrogenation of propane to propylene (PDH) is another commercial process, however, its high-energy consumption due to thermodynamic constraints [4] coupled with rapid catalyst deactivation [5] are the monumental impediments that necessitate the search for other alternative routes.
Download : Download high-res image (93KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Major Propylene derivatives.
Among all the methods, oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene appears highly prospective due to its thermodynamic leverage, and could proceed at lower temperature in the presence of an oxidant (limited oxygen) [2]. The thermodynamics of ODHP under different modes of operation has been discussed in a review by Rostom and De Lasa [6]. Basically, oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is facilitated on oxide and oxide-supported catalysts of transition metals, with lattice oxygen species as the major active sites. Fig. 2 depicts a simplified ODHP reaction networks. The reduced catalysts require regeneration intermittently to sustain their catalytic performance with time-on-stream (TOS). Obviously, most studies in oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes to olefins (ODH) aimed to explore catalysts with efficient composition-activity and structure-activity functionality that will suppress the parallel and consecutive over-oxidation routes involved in the reaction mechanism (Fig. 2). The essence is to improve the yield to olefin products and ensure long-term catalyst stability.
Download : Download high-res image (72KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Simplified ODHP reaction networks. Adapted from [17].
Various transition metal oxides such as vanadium (VOx), Molybdenum (MoOx), and Chromium (CrOx) have been reported to have promising ODHP catalytic performance owing to their unique chemical coordination and tunable reducibility. They were reported either as mixed oxides or as supported oxide catalysts. The support materials include oxides (such as alumina, silica, titania, ceria, zirconia, and magnesium oxide), zeolites, and carbon-derived materials such as CNTs and rGO. Besides, metal oxide clusters supported on metal-organic framework have shown good prospect towards low-temperature ODHP performance [[7], [8], [9]]. Multi-metallic mixed oxide systems such as MoVTeNbO have been reported to have onset ODH activity at temperatures below 400 °C [3]. The MoVTeNbO catalyst has promising ODH performance (nearly 60 % ethane conversion and 90 % ethylene selectivity) due to synergy among its constituent metal oxides. Additionally, boron-based catalysts such as hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) were serendipitously found to have incredible ODH performance for lower alkanes with lower COx selectivity [10].
Most recently, Cao et al. reported a novel strategy of synthesizing boron nitride catalyst with a 3D spherical superstructure morphology [11]. The catalyst was derived from pyrolysis of metal-organic framework (MOF) precursor, and it displayed a high propylene yield of 27.8 % during ODHP. Another important class of ODHP catalysts are the metal-free carbon-based catalysts [[12], [13], [14], [15]]. Their catalytic features can easily be tuned, and they also have promising low-temperature ODHP performance. Besides, vanadium oxide open-framework nanostructured materials are a new class of highly potential ODHP catalysts [16]. They are composed of 3D arrays of {V18O42(XO4)} (X = V, S, etc) clusters which are well-interconnected by {–O–M–O–}bridges (M = transition metals such as Co, Fe, Mn, etc) linkers. The catalytic behavior of these new class of catalysts for tailored application in ODH of propane could easily be achieved via tuning the heterometallic linkers. Noteworthy, despite the prospects of the various ODHP catalysts reported so far, there is still an urgent need to gain further insights with regards to the nature of their active sites. Proper understanding of the available active sites and their catalytic roles can provide better alternatives in tuning the catalysts for improved ODHP performances towards industrial application.
In attempts to unmask the relationship between intrinsic properties of ODHP catalysts, several kinetic studies have been reported [17]. The ODHP kinetics involves a complex scheme, with the consecutive and parallel over-oxidation of the propane and propylene respectively, leading to the undesired COx products [18]. Carrero et al. have carefully reviewed the ODHP kinetics of well-defined supported vanadium-based catalysts [2]. Obviously, the nature of active species available on catalyst surface plays significant roles in determining the selectivity, mechanism and kinetics of the catalyst [19]. High-throughput experimental runs at various operating conditions essentially contribute to development of robust kinetic models [2]. Kinetic studies are very important, because they provide insights for improving the designs and optimization of catalysts for particular application.
Notably, for most exothermic processes such as ODHP, the choice of appropriate reactor type and configuration is paramount in the development of the process to commercial scale. Even though fixed bed reactors are simpler and require less complex control setup over fluidized beds, the latter offer superior advantages. These include efficient mass transport, less prone to hotspot formation coupled with ease of catalyst regeneration [20]. However, not all catalysts are fluidizable, and this posed an extra challenge in the design and synthesis of catalysts used in the fluidized bed [21]. Rostom and de Lasa [6] have discussed reactor concept and effect of operating conditions in their recent review. The investigation of kinetics in heterogeneous reactions stand to furnish information not only on the property-activity functions of the catalysts involved, but also the interplay between the homogeneous gas phase and surface heterogeneous reactions involved in the ODHP mechanism. It should be noted that for the ODHP process to become industrially viable, novel designs in reactor concepts are important.
Interestingly, there are some excellent reviews on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of light alkanes (including propane) to olefins [[22], [23], [24]] with CO2 [25,26], on vanadium-based catalysts [27], carbon-based catalysts [28,29], on boron nitride catalyst [30], or specifically on ODHP [6] and its kinetics [2], and on CO2-assited ODHP [31]. In recent times, large amount of literature providing further insight into the structural nature of active sites along with key catalytic properties linked to ODHP catalysts has been reported. These properties include oxide-support interaction, oxygen vacancy, acid–base property, and surface oxide reducibility. Other aspects include nature of active sites on ODHP catalysts, active sites isolation, accessibility of active sites, active sites in layered-double hydroxide (LDH) derived mixed oxide catalysts, intercalated LDH precursors, and co-precipitated LDH precursors. Thus, the present review is a discussion on these advances, aimed to provide perspectives on rational design and tuning of catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene (ODHP). Obviously, the strategies here discussed are not only applicable to ODHP reaction, especially that literatures rationalizing the concepts of these properties are scarce, and the properties have substantial influence on catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability of many heterogeneous catalysts. Furthermore, highlights on the importance of accelerated catalyst discovery via high-throughput experimentations (HTE) and high-throughput quantum computations (HTC) has been provided.
1.1. Modes of operation of ODHP
Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can be facilitated in various modes. Operating ODHP under limited oxygen atmosphere has the advantage that deposited coke can easily be burned off and the site regenerated easily. However, chances of deep oxidation of the propane and other olefin products (ethylene and propylene) increases, which is detrimental to the overall ODHP selectivity. Another alternative is the use of mild oxidants such as N2O [32] and CO2 [33] to limit the direct and consecutive total oxidation reactions depicted on Fig. 2. While N2O is promising in generating selective nucleophilic oxygens when re-oxidizing reduced catalysts [34], its cost will likely be an impending factor for its utilization on industrial scale [35]. The use of CO2 has dual advantage of improving ODHP selectivity and as an alternative CO2 valorization means. Nonetheless, its inertness presents a challenge in developing ODHP catalysts that are strong enough to activate the CO2 effectively and also catalyze the C–H activation selectively.
Notably, ODHP can also be operated under oxygen-free atmosphere [36], where it is facilitated mainly on lattice oxygen species available on surface of catalysts. Obviously, with long time-on-stream or more catalytic cycles, the amount of the lattice oxygen will get depleted, and the reduced catalyst will require regeneration in hot air to burn the coke and replenish the sites. Despite the fact that this mode of ODHP operation is highly prospective in limiting the parallel propane combustion and consecutive propylene oxidation routes, the grand challenge remains the design and development of catalyst with highly active and selective lattice oxygens. Electrophilic oxygens are known to be highly reactive but less selective, while more nucleophilic oxygens are very selective but less active [22]. Thus, modulating the catalytic feature of the lattice and adsorbed oxygens to improve both their activity and selectivity is an important option for developing efficient ODHP catalysts.
2. Active sites
This section entails discussion regarding the nature active sites for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), probing of the active sites and site isolation, active sites accessibility, active sites in layered-double hydroxide (LDH) derived mixed oxide catalysts, switching of active centers during ODHP process, and structural requirements in terms of active components for ODHP reaction. Obviously, adequate understanding of the active sites involved in any heterogeneous reaction can provide good insight to rational design of novel catalysts with improved stable catalytic performance, possibly at lower temperature below the conventional.
2.1. Active site in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane
In catalysis, active component, promoter, and support are the basic components that usually constitute a catalyst for particular application [37]. The active sites are the main catalytic centers assembled within the active component, where electronic interactions happen with adsorbates during reactions. There are different classes of catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). They include metal oxide-based catalysts (supported or unsupported), carbon-based catalysts, supported metal catalysts, and boron-containing catalysts such as hexagonal boron nitride. The active sites for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane are different for different class of catalysts. These active sites are widely considered to be reactive oxygen species present in different structural forms on the surfaces of the catalysts.
As it will be discussed shortly under tuning strategy section, heteroatom doping, thermal and chemical treatment of the bulk catalysts, and use of suitable support materials can result in significant modification on the reactivity and selectivity of the active oxygen species. Basically, the changes in the reactivity, selectivity, and stability of active sites stem from changes in electronic and geometric effects within the catalysts that ensue from the appropriate catalyst tuning strategy [38]. These effects are nanoscale phenomena that greatly impact on active sites, and translate to significant influence on the overall catalytic performances of the catalysts. Moreover, lattice strain effect and proximity to surface defect such as oxygen vacancy can influence the catalytic nature of active sites [39]. Direct probing of these effects or examining their contributions separately on catalytic activity requires systematic study and use of advanced analytical techniques, especially in operando or in situ mode [40].
Currently, metal oxide-based catalysts are the most explored in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), and their active sites are majorly the lattice oxygen species. The active sites mostly facilitate the ODHP reaction via Mars-Van Krevelen (MvK) mechanism, involving sequences of oxidation-reduction steps on the metal oxide surface. The difference in the chemical environment [41] and location [42] of lattice oxygen species can give rise to significant variation in their catalytic properties. Among the various oxygen species that could be available on the surface of metal oxide catalysts include those adsorbed as molecules (
), neutral atoms (O), superoxide (
, peroxide (
, ozonide (
or oxygen radical (
[43]. The more electron-deficient the species are (more electrophilic), the more reactive and less selective they are likely to be in oxidative reactions with light hydrocarbons (ethane and propane). The electrophilic character follows the trend;
>
>
>
. Fig. 3 shows a scheme representing nucleophilic and electrophilic oxygen species available on metal oxide-based catalysts. In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), lattice oxygen (O2−) species with appropriate nucleophilic character are known to be highly selective towards propylene product [22]. The nucleophilic property is majorly determined by the ability of the oxygen species to donate electrons and the strength of the metal-oxygen (M–O) bond involved at the active sites. Noteworthy, probing the catalytic contributions of the various adsorbed oxygens and the lattice oxygen species available on the surfaces of ODHP catalysts is very important. This can provide useful insights for optimizing the composition-activity functions of the catalysts, and could be achieved through well-designed experiments.
Download : Download high-res image (208KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Schematic representation of oxygen species available on metal oxide-based catalysts. Adapted from ref. [22].
In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the reaction begins with activation of propane molecule by the surface reactive oxygen species that serve as the active sites. Depending on the nature of the catalyst and the available active sites, the activation of the C–H bond in the propane molecule may proceed via single-electron or paired-electron transfer process. The activation of the C–H bond in propane molecules via single-electron mechanism is a homolytic bond cleavage that generates propyl radicals [44,45], while the paired-electron mechanism involves a heterolytic cleavage [46]. However, most of the catalysts reported for ODHP (especially metal oxide-based) facilitate the C–H activation by nucleophilic oxygen species (strong basic centers) via the paired-electron mechanism (Eq. 1). After the C–H activation, a reduced site is formed and should be regenerated for the next catalytic cycle. Equations 2–4 depict the activation of gas phase oxygen to regenerate the nucleophilic lattice oxygen species at the reduced site. The oxygen reduction process requires four electrons per mole of oxygen [42]. In a DFT study on terminated Ti2C MXenes, the C–H activation in propane was found to strongly correlate with hydrogen affinity [47]. It should be noted that the present review is not intended to cover detailed discussion on the C–H activation mechanisms of the various catalysts involved in ODHP. Fig. 4 depicts the steps involved in ODHP on nucleophilic lattice oxygen species available on MnWO4 catalyst surface. The first C–H activation is usually the rate-determining step [48,49]. Subsequently, depending on the nature of interaction between the sites and the intermediates generated, propylene or other undesired products such as COx are produced. The selectivity of a catalyst in ODHP depends on the ability of its active sites to catalytically stabilize the intermediates, and steer the reaction towards the desired product.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Download : Download high-res image (349KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Steps involved in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on selective nucleophilic oxygen species over nanostructured MnWO4 catalyst [50].
The regeneration of the reduced active sites is an essential step in the catalytic cycle, and it has strong impact on the activity and selectivity of the ODHP process. The re-oxidation of the reduced site begins with the adsorption of the oxidant (
,
,
) from the gas phase, followed by its activation on the site (equations 2–4). The nature of the oxidizing atmosphere used during re-oxidation of the reduced catalysts plays an important role in the nature of the surface oxygen species that ensue on the recovered sites. A systematic study on VOx/MCM-41 catalyst with Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy revealed that less selective and highly reactive electrophilic anionic oxygen radicals are generated when re-oxidation is done under gas phase oxygen [51]. Under the N2O gas, such oxygen species that completely burn propylene molecules were not observed. Rather, diamagnetic nucleophilic species O2− are the ones most probably formed.
Besides, in boron-containing catalysts, trigonal boron borosilicate zeolite [52], defective sites on h-BN [53], oxygen-terminated armchair (>B-O-ON<) on h-BN [54], tri-coordinated boroxol and hydroxylated linear boron species on B2O3/SBA-15 [55], and edge-located hydroxyl group on BNOH [56] were reported as the active centers responsible for the observed propylene selectivity during ODHP. For carbon-based catalysts, oxygen-containing functional groups are majorly the active sites involved in oxidative dehydrogenation roles [29,57]. The oxygen groups could be located at armchair (Fig. 5a) or zigzag (Fig. 5b) terminations, and could be modified significantly via treatment in oxidizing environments or treatment with acids and other chemicals such as phosphates.
Download : Download high-res image (398KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Optimized structures of various oxygen groups at a) armchair b) zigzag termination, and c) their nucleophilicity derived via DFT calculation [58].
Regardless of the catalyst class, whether metal oxide-based or metal-free such as carbocatalysts, nucleophilic oxygen groups are more selective but less reactive compared to their electrophilic counterparts. Among the various oxygen groups, quinone and diketone located at armchair and zigzag edges are most nucleophilic (Fig. 5c) [58]. Presence of defects on carbon-based catalysts such as CNT can be beneficial to formation of ketonic carbonyl groups through oxo-functionalization, and the sites formed are highly selective in ODHP [59]. Liu et al. reported that the amount of carbonyl–quinone in hydrothermally-derived ordered mesoporous carbon catalysts strongly correlated with the ODHP reaction rate [60]. Sun et al. investigated the effect of boron doping on nanodiamond for ODHP [61]. They revealed that at moderate borate doping, the formation of electrophilic oxygen sites (which favor COx products) was suppressed significantly. This was achieved when the dopant preferentially interacted with the available surface defects of the nanodiamond catalyst. However, the surface carbonyl groups became blocked at higher dopant concentration, and tetrahedrally coordinated boron ensued, leading to loss in propylene selectivity. Most recently, edge-located modified carbonyl groups on graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) are found to be the active sites involved in ODH of propane, as evidenced by in situ diffuse reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (DRIFTS) [62].
It is noteworthy that the review articles by Schlögl [63] and Védrine [64] are informative in further understanding of the nature and behaviour of active sites of mixed oxide catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). Obviously, the presence of defects and several other kinds of oxygen species such as chemisorbed (O2−) and dissociatively adsorbed (O−) species may ensue on catalytic surfaces during activation of fresh catalysts or re-oxidation of reduced ones. This has greatly contributed to the difficulty in understanding the unique nature of active sites for most of the ODHP catalyst reported. Beside, a clear difference in the C–H bond activation for ODHP and direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is that they proceed via heterolytic and homolytic bond cleavage, respectively [65], and the later occurs on reduced catalysts with coordinatively unsaturated cations as active sites [[66], [67], [68]]. This suggests that a catalyst may be investigated for both ODHP and PDH activities, depending on the mode of the catalytic testing [69]. The intrinsic performance of active sites can be represented more accurately in terms of turnover frequency (TOF) instead of the conventional approach of using percentage conversion. The TOF indicates the catalytic activity of a catalyst per active site, and it is so far the best way to compare performances of various catalysts in a particular reaction.
2.2. Understanding the nature of active sites and site isolation
The structural and compositional complexity of most heterogeneous catalysts demands robust systematic approaches to reveal the distinct nature of their active sites. These approaches may involve corroborating the trends in catalytic performance with surface analysis and spectroscopic techniques along with DFT modelling [70]. Understanding the true nature of active sites under real experimental conditions provides the necessary platform to establish reaction mechanisms and enable knowledge-driven design of novel catalysts with optimized catalytic features. Besides, the geometric and electronic state of catalysts under real reaction conditions are most likely different from those of as-prepared catalysts. As such, probing the active sites to unveil their chemical state and structure via operando characterizations remains indispensable [71]. This will facilitate establishment of composition-performance and structure-performance relationships that better reflect the dynamic interactions of reaction intermediates with the catalytic surfaces.
Obviously, vanadium-based catalysts are the most explored among metal oxide ODHP catalysts. Due to the structural complexity of their active phase [72], clear understanding of their structure-performance relationship requires synthesis techniques capable of yielding well-defined isolated VOx species. Barman et al. reported a synthesis method for silica-supported vanadia catalyst with well-defined surface species via surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) [73]. The SOMC protocol offered high degree of control in the grafting and isolation of the monomeric VOx species on the silica surface. The authors employed μ2-oxo-bridged, bimetallic [V2O4(acac)2] complex as the vanadia precursor and tuned its interactions with the surface of the silica support via controlled thermal dehydroxylation of the support prior to the grafting process. The single-site VOx catalyst showed superior ODHP performance (nearly twofold propylene formation at 525 °C) compared to similar vanadium-based catalysts synthesized via incipient wetness impregnation (IWI). The IWI method resulted in mixtures of monomeric and polymeric VOx species on the support, and even crystalline phase at higher V loading. Advances in complementary operando characterizations such as simultaneous Transmission FTIR and Raman Characterization (IRRaman) can offer great capability in probing adsorbed species, reaction intermediates, and structural properties of VOx catalysts under real ODHP conditions [74]. Obvious, this can aid in revealing the actual identity of the active centers that participate in every stage of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.
Additionally, Samantaray et al. have discussed prospect of surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) in relation to single atom catalysis (SAC), and how the overlap between the two could set a new direction in the rational design of ODHP catalysts with well-defined surface active phase [75]. The SOMC involves regulating the concentration of supported active sites by tuning of the amount of the surface OH groups [76]. The oxide support is dehydroxylated prior to grafting of the active phase precursor. Controlled thermal treatment of the grafted metal complex yields the well-defined isolated supported sites (Fig. 6), and removes the remnant of the organometallic precursor [76]. The difference in the reactivity of the organometallic precursors and the various support materials can result in surface sites that are structurally distinct [77]. The advantage in active-site isolation offered by the SOMC will aid in better understanding of the structure-activity relationships in ODHP catalysts, especially metal oxide-based. In addition to the usefulness of site isolation in understanding the identity of active sites, it can also improve the selectivity and stability of the active sites. Beside the use of SOMC, site isolation could be achieved by other strategies such as surface treatment. Typically, surface treatment of VOx/Al2O3 with phosphine via chemical vapor deposition (CVD) was reported to have significantly improved the catalytic stability of the catalyst (during direct dehydrogenation of propane) due to isolation of the V2O5 phase and inhibition of coke precursor oligomerization [78].
Download : Download high-res image (180KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. Concept of preparing well-define isolated site on supports via Surface Organometallic Chemistry (SOMC) [76].
Obviously, the presence of more isolated sites is beneficial to the overall ODHP performance, and can ease the desorption of the propylene products prior to being further oxidized. And that depends on the nature of the support, and the interaction of the active phase with the support during the catalyst synthesis. VOx catalyst supported on Ce-doped titania nanotube (Ce/TiO2 molar ratio of 0.05) displayed superior thermal stability and better propylene selectivity due to higher amount of isolated VOx phase [79]. However, in VOx/nano-ZSM-5 catalysts, the effect of more acid sites due to the acidic nature of the support more than compensated the effect of increase in proportion of isolated VOx species. This led to detrimental effect on the propylene selectivity and caused more COx products especially at higher temperatures due to higher cracking selectivity [80]. Thus, site isolation and acidity of support materials are important factors to be considered in the design and development of more efficient ODHP catalysts that could produce less COx products. The COx products are usually generated due to overoxidation reactions of reactant propane or the reaction intermediates. Most importantly, the potentials of organometallic chemistry (SOMC) in generating isolated active species which can aid in probing identity of active sites and their ODHP catalytic contributions should be explored in other supported oxides other than vanadium-based catalysts.
2.3. Active sites accessibility
The accessibility to active sites is another crucial factor in ensuring improved catalytic performance in heterogeneous catalysis. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is not an exception. As will be discussed later, use of suitable supports can significantly improve the dispersion of the active phase of ODHP catalysts. Structured supports such as monolith, MCM, SBA-15 are known to offer excellent stabilization of active sites as well as improved transport properties. VOx incorporated in mesoporous silica KIT-6 (V-KIT-6) resulted in high dispersion and accessibility of active sites due to its interconnected 3D pore architecture [81,82]. The catalyst displayed improved ODHP performance (Table 1). Modification of the catalyst with potassium, especially at lower V-loading is beneficial to formation of isolated VOx species, however, it is accompanied by significant decline in the pore diameter of the resultant catalysts (Table 1) [82]. It is noteworthy that the ability to stabilize active sites on a support alone does not guarantees improvement in catalytic performance, the accessibility to these sites is another important factor. Thus, catalysts investigated for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane should be examined for the accessibility of their active sites. For metal-free catalysts such as carbocatalysts, modulation of their microstructure provides an effective approach in tuning their active sites accessibility [29].
Table 1. Influence of catalyst pore modulation on ODHP performance due to improved mass transport.
Catalyst Synthesis/design strategy V/Si a
(molar ratio) Pore diameter
(nm)b C3H8 Conv. (%) C3H6 Select. (%) CO/CO2
(%) Temp. (oC) Reaction conditions Ref.
V-KIT-6 Direct hydrothermal method 1.80:100 9.7 55.0 64.7 12.8/11.5 600 Fixed bed quartz reactor, 0.1 g catalyst,
C3/O2/ N2 of 1:1:8%
v/v and 40 mL/min [81]
V/KIT-6 Incipient wetness impregnation 1.81:100 7.7 41.6 45.1 25.1/14.9
V-KIT-6 Direct hydrothermal method 0.5:100 9.3 16.4 45.8 12.7/26.5 550 [82]
K/V-KIT-6 0.5:0.5: 100 8.3 33.9 50.8 10.0/21.5
0.5:1.8: 100 8.0 5.4 37.2 9.5/26.9
Bulk NiCe Precipitation method Nominal molar ratio Ni/Ce = 2 7.4 36.0 0.6 -/92.5 375 Fixed-bed reactor (ID:0.8 cm), 0.2 g catalyst, C3/O2/ N2 of 1:1:8%
v/v and 50 mL/min, GHSV of 15,000 mL g−1 h−1 [83]
3DOM NiCe Colloidal crystal templating 19.1 30.3 39.4 -/57.2
3DOM VMgO
Empty Cell
V2O5
/(V2O5 + MgO) =28.6 wt %
(ICP) 15.3 34.7 32.5 COx = 66.5 550 [84]
c3DOM implies three-dimensionally ordered macroporous.
a
V:Si final molar ratio measured by XPS.
b
Pore diameter determined from BET analysis.
Notably, active site accessibility can also be achieved via designing the active phase as three-dimensionally (3D) ordered materials with well-interconnected macropores. Fang et al. reported significant improvement in propylene selectivity over three-dimensionally ordered macroporous catalysts with varying NiCe molar ratios (3DOMxNiCe, x = molar ratio of Ni/Ce) [83] as depicted on Table 1. The authors attributed the observed selectivity improvement to be partly due to improved mass transport of both the reactant (propane molecules) and the propylene in the 3DOMxNiCe catalysts by virtue of their interconnected micro- or mesoporous frameworks. Such improved mass transport could inhibits the consecutive propene oxidation [84]. Most recently, Lu et al. reported a metal-free boron phosphate catalyst with a stable 3D ordered macroporous structure via in situ nanocasting involving hydrothermal treatment [85]. The ordered spherical polymeric templates were removed after calcination (Fig. 7a), and the BPO4 phase with 3D framework ensued. The authors revealed that the BPO4(OM) catalyst exhibited improved mass transport compared to a benchmarked nonporous BPO4(bulk) sample. In addition, tri-coordinated B–O species available on the surface were suggested to be the main active sites, and the BPO4(OM) catalyst showed improved ODHP performance (∼14 % conv., 82 % propylene select.) compared to the BPO4(bulk), as depicted in Fig. 7b. Obviously, the use of templating strategy to design the active phase of catalysts into 3D stable frameworks provides an opportunity in improving accessibility of active sites without necessarily using any support material.
Download : Download high-res image (590KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. a) Schematic of the synthesis strategy of ordered macroporous BPO4 (OM) catalyst along with SEM image of the materials at every stage. b) Conversion versus temperature of the BPO4 (OM) and BPO4 (bulk) catalysts at 515 °C. c) Olefin (C3H6 + C2H4) productivity versus C3H8 conversion at 515 °C 100 mg; gas feed C3H8/O2/N2 with 1:1.5:3.5 M ratio; flow rate, 48 mL min−1 in a packed-bed quartz microreactor (i.d. = 6 mm) [85].
2.4. Active sites in LDH-derived mixed oxide catalysts
Most recently, insertion of active species into the interlayer space of layered structured materials such as graphite, MXenes, porphyrin, layered-double hydroxide or other tailored layered supports in form of nanosheets has received keen attention in diverse areas of research. In catalysis, due to the tunable surface chemistry of the hosts, such intercalation may result in significant modulation of the active sites or creation of new sites with improved catalytic functions [86]. Intercalation can greatly enhance the electronic and structural properties of the active sites, improve their thermal stability and enable facile product desorption [87]. Mixed oxide as heterogeneous catalysts have been widely applied in facilitating diverse industrial catalytic processes. In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) studies, layered-double hydroxides (LDHs) are among the widely reported precursors for the synthesis of mixed oxide catalysts. The LDHs are two-dimensional anionic materials, with versatile composition and highly tunable layered structure [88]. The positively charged sheets of LDHs are compensated by interlayer-located anions such as carbonate, chloride or hydroxyl to maintain electrical neutrality. The positively charged layers are usually composed of divalent and trivalent cations. Notably, mixed oxide catalysts from the LDH precursors can either be derived by incorporation of the active metal species (such as transition or rare-earth metal) in or outside the brucite-like sheets, or via intercalation in the interlayer space. In either case, the mixed oxide catalysts ensue after subsequent thermal treatment of the loaded LDH precursors.
2.4.1. Intercalated LDH precursors
Synthesis of mixed oxide catalysts from intercalated LDH precursors usually involves synthesizing the LDH precursors first, followed by intercalation of the active metal species via ion exchange. The anionic active metal species either as oxometalates or polyoxometalates are ion exchanged at regulated pH in a solution with the charge-compensation anions localized in the interlayer of the LDHs [88]. The constituents of the active species could have more than a single metal, so also the cations that form the positively charged layers of the LDH could be composed of more than two metals [89]. It should be noted that not always the intended intercalation results in confinement of the active species in the interlamellar space of the LDH host. Several factors such as use and nature of anionic chelating agents, nature of the compensation anion, synthesis methodology can influence whether the active metal species localize outside the sheets, within them or inside the anionic interlayer space [88]. The site localization of the active metal species may have profound influence on the coking resistance, thermal stability as well as the overall catalytic behaviour of the LDH-derived mixed oxide catalyst [90].
Valverde et al. reported a mixed oxide catalysts derived from decavanadate-intercalated LDH precursors for ODHP [91]. The LDHs were carbonate and hydroxyl anion-compensated Ni–Al hydrotalcites obtained from hydrothermal method. Interestingly, the nature of the compensation anions greatly influenced the properties of the final catalysts. In the case of the hydroxyl-compensated (NiAlHV_Cal) catalyst, beside the NiO crystalline phase, additional pyrovanadate and nickel orthovanadate phases were observed due to the vanadium being incorporated outside the interlayer space of the LDH precursor. Overall, the Ni-V-Al samples had lower maximum reduction temperature (below 600 °C) from H2-TPR, and were more selective to propylene under excess oxygen condition. The authors also found that high Ni/V ratio (5.4) prompted preferential crystallization of Ni3V2O8 that could play synergistic roles with NiO phase in ODHP.
Obviously, derivation of mixed oxide catalysts from synthesis involving intercalated LDH precursors is a promising alternative. Alvarez et al. revealed that ZnAlVO mixed oxides obtained from decavanadate-intercalated LDH had nearly ten-fold ODHP activity compared to ones obtained from impregnation method [92]. Moreover, increase in the calcination temperature was found to be beneficial to the catalytic performance of the LDH-derived catalysts. The authors found that the strength of the Lewis and Brønsted acid sites was more decisive in explaining the catalytic behaviour of the LDH-derived catalysts compared to other factors like reducibility and nature of the crystalline phases. For several investigated LDH-derived mixed oxide catalysts, there was no observable correlation between their observed ODHP catalytic performance with H2-TPR reducibility [93]. In an LDH-derived Mg-V-Al mixed oxide, high acidity and low basicity impede desorption of propylene molecules that subsequently oxidized to CO products [94]. Blanco et al. made same finding on impregnation-derived Mg-V-Al mixed oxide [95]. The authors also found that Mg-V oxide (having medium acid strength) obtained via impregnation method deactivated rapidly, and combustion of the propylene molecules on electrophilic sites produced majorly CO2. Table 2 shows the catalytic performances of layered-double hydroxide (LDH) derived catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).
Table 2. Performances of some layered-double hydroxide (LDH) derived catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
Catalyst Synthesis/design strategy Calcination time (h) /temperature (oC) C3H8 Conv. (%) C3H6 Selec. (%) CO/CO2
(%) Temp. (oC) Reaction conditions Reactor type Ref.
ZnAlVO mixed oxides Sol-gel method from ZnAl-layered double hydroxide (LDH) 24/500 21.5 30.3 37.4/26.8 425 Fixed bed reactor (ID: 10 mm), 0.2 g catalyst diluted with quartz in a 1:1 mass ratio. C3/O2/He 8:8:84 %
v/v 250 cm3
/min Fixed bed reactor [18]
Empty Cell
5/500 17.4 34.1 38.7/27.2 425
ZnAlVO Wet impregnation 24/500 13.8 30.4 48.4/21.2 425
NiAl mixed oxides LDH Co-precipitation (constant pH) 4/600 25.6 39.8 3.5/54.2 450 Fixed bed reactor, 0.2 g catalyst, C3/O2/N2 2:2:16 %
v/v 20 mL min−1, WHSV of
6000 mL g−1 h−1 Fixed bed quartz tube reactor [98]
Empty Cell
24.2 33.0 6.8/56.7 500
Empty Cell
LDH Co-precipitation (variable pH) 27.5 40.7 2.6/54.5 450
Empty Cell
100 0.0 18.2/27.5 500
Empty Cell
LDH Co-precipitation (hydrolysis) 25.3 42.5 3.7/52.0 450
Empty Cell
29.1 39.1 7.4/48.0 500
N-pillared CoAl LDH Co-precipitation followed by hydrothermal treatment 4/400 31.5 0.0 33.2/64.6 450 Fixed bed quartz reactor, 0.1 g catalyst with quartz in a 1:1 mass ratio, C3/O2/He 1:1:4 M ratio, 50 mLmin−1, WHSV of
30,000 mL g−1 h−1 Fixed-bed quartz tubular reactor [99]
S-pillared CoAl 25.0 31.6 2.3/60.8
P-pillared CoAl 28.0 34.8 7.6/54.3
Carbonate-pillared-CoAl 23.8 21.5 1.7/65.3
CoAl mixed oxide LDH Co-precipitaion 28.7 0 37.2/61.0
2.4.2. Co-precipitated LDH precursors
Apart from use of intercalated LDH precursors, synthesis of mixed oxide catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane were reported via co-precipitation LDH precursors. In this case, the metal active species are located mostly within the brucite-like sheets. They are co-precipitated during synthesis with the other metals that later form the positively charged layers of the hydrotalcites. The drive for this easier approach is most probably the quest to achieve homogeneous distribution of the active component in the final catalyst [96]. The high dispersion of the derivative co-precipitated LDH precursor catalyst is expected to make the active sites more isolated for better propylene selectivity. The catalytic properties and behaviors of the mixed oxide catalysts derived via this approach could be tuned easily by systematic varying of the constituent oxides [97] and their proportion, modifying the calcination temperature and calcination atmosphere, regulating the pH of the precipitating solution, and intercalation of various inorganic anions in the interlayer spaces.
Typically, in Ni-Al mixed oxides derived via co-precipitation of LDH precursors, increase in Ni content prompted more interaction among the component oxides [100]. Consequently, the selectivity in ODH of ethane improved, whereas both the activity and selectivity of propane ODH were negatively impacted. Most recently, Gao et al. reported a study on three synthesized Ni-Al mixed oxides derived from LDH precursors and benchmarked their ODHP performance with a nano NiO, all thermally pre-treated at 600 °C [98]. They utilized constant pH co-precipitation, variable pH co-precipitation, and urea hydrolysis method to synthesize the 4NiAl(C)-600, 4NiAl(V)-600 and 4NiAl(U)-600, respectively. At 450 °C, the 4NiAl(V)-600 sample showed highest activity (27 % C3H8 conversion), and the yield to propylene for all the catalysts were comparable (∼ 11 %) (Table 2). However, both 4NiAl(V)-600 and NiO gave purely cracking product (CH4) and COx at 500 °C, despite having C3H8 conversion of 100 % and 32 %, respectively. The 4NiAl(U)-600 displayed a conversion of ∼ 40 % and a propylene yield of ∼11 % at 500 °C, projecting the urea hydrolysis method as a more promising technique in synthesizing the Ni-Al mixed oxides for ODHP application. Obviously, synthesis of mixed oxide catalysts via co-precipitation of LDH precursors without necessarily involving the additional ion exchange step provides more alternatives in modulating the catalysts.
In addition, Huang et al. reported the intercalation of different anionic species (carbonates, sulfates, and phosphates) into layered-double hydroxide (LDH) structure to synthesize various anion-pillared LDH-derived Co-Al LDO (layered-double oxide) catalysts for ODHP application [99]. The synthesis resulted in the active cobalt species being homogeneously dispersed in the LDH sheets. They exploited the advantage offered by the layered-structure of the LDH materials to incorporate the highly active Co species. Consequently, the property-activity function of the Co-based mixed oxide catalysts (Co-Al LDO) that ensued after calcination became modulated. The authors utilized hydrothermal method followed by an anion exchange with different inorganic anions (carbonates, sulfates, and phosphates). The phosphate pillared catalysts (CA-P LDO) displayed more improved performance (∼26 % conv., ∼39 % propylene select. at 400 °C) compared to a benchmarked CoAl mixed oxide catalyst derived via LDH Co-precipitaion without anionic exchange (Table 2). They attributed the propylene selectivity improvement to decrease in oxygen reactivity, partly caused by alumina enrichment and anion presence at the surface. Interestingly, results of the catalytic performances among the different anion-pillared catalysts suggested possible differences in their C–H activation mechanisms.
Obviously, well-dispersed cobalt-based mixed oxide derived from co-precipitation of LDH precursors constitute a promising class of ODHP catalysts, especially when the active species exist in tetrahedral coordination [101]. The spinel Co3O4 structure is more selective to COx products, especially at higher cobalt-loading. Most recently, Dai et al. revealed intercalation of cobalt in γ-Al2O3 sheets and achieved well-dispersed stabilized tetrahedral Co2+ species in the Co-Al2O3-HT. The catalyst showed remarkable performance in direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) (∼22 % conv., 97 % propylene select.) compared to a benchmarked Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst derived via impregnation method [102]. Besides, the catalyst was highly stable with no observable coke formation. Evidently, the design of catalysts via exploitation of tunable structures such as layered-double hydroxide (LDH) and other tailor-made nanosheet materials is a promising approach in designing efficient catalysts for ODHP application.
2.5. Structural nature of active components
In recent times, vast amount of literature revealing the structural nature of active site involved in different catalytic systems for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane has been reported. Typically, Zhang et al. examined the influence of phase composition of Mg-V-O oxides on intrinsic ODHP performance [103]. The catalysts were synthesized via a citrate method with NH4VO3 and Mg (NO3)2·6H2O as precursors. The synthesis method had great impact on the nature of phase composition of the active oxides that ensued [104].The authors revealed that ODHP turnover rates of the phases followed the trend MgV2O6 >α-Mg2V2O7 > Mg3V2O8, corroborating the same trend in the surface reducibility. Notable, they found the absence of synergistic effects in the ODHP performance of formulated biphasic Mg-V-O physical mixtures (MgV2O6 + α-Mg2V2O7, MgV2O6 + Mg3V2O8, and α-Mg2V2O7 + Mg3V2O8). Interestingly, the α-Mg2V2O7 basically contained crystalline V2O7 dimeric units, and it displayed superior intrinsic activity and selectivity to propylene relative to Mg3V2O8 which was composed of isolated VO4 species. The tetragonal VO4 are known to be highly selective to propylene product, and depending on the catalytic system, VO bonds may steer the ODHP reaction towards the overoxidation [105]. The authors also revealed that there was no evolution of the α-Mg2V2O7 phase when the Mg-V-O oxides were supported on MgO-coated SBA-15 via co-impregnation, even at higher V loading of 25.6 wt% [106]. Furthermore, the presence of Mg3V2O8 crystallites of moderate size (15–30 nm) led to more improved propylene yield relative to isolated monovanadates. The study revealed further insight to the structural requirement in terms of active components of the Mg-V-O oxide catalyst for enhanced ODHP performance.
Despite the great tendency to agglomeration of VOx species (to form V2O5 phase) when supported on SBA-15, rehydration of the support prior to wet impregnation technique was found to significantly improved the monolayer coverage up to 1.6 VOx nm−2 [107]. However, the less reducible polyvanadates and V2O5 (less selective phases) still predominate at higher V loading. Trotuş revealed significant modulation of the reactivity of lattice oxygens in a phosphorus-modified CeO2 catalyst [108]. In both surface- and bulk-doped CeO2, increase in the P content resulted in improved propylene selectivity, with the over oxidation reaction significantly suppressed. However, the surface-phosphated catalyst had more well-dispersed isolated Ce4+ cations in contact with P (CePO4) that facilitated the ODHP more selectively, especially at low P loading, compared to the CeO2 benchmarked sample. In addition, Fan et al. revealed that ordered mesoporous Ni-Mo-O catalysts synthesized via hard templating has displayed stable high βNiMoO4/α-NiMoO4 ratio and high propylene yield [109]. However, there was possibility of Mo diffusion into lattice of the NiO support, evident by the formation of NiMoO4 phase at higher Mo loadings (0.2−0.5). Notably, the presence of Mo suppressed the reducibility of the Ni species. Besides, Kim et al. found that incorporation of Zr into the alumina support to develop a thermally deactivated CrOy/γ-Al2O3-ZrO2 [110]. They observed doubled-fold improvement of propane conversion rate (μmol/m2.s) (in Cr/AZ-0.07) relative to catalyst with zero zirconia-modification, and the dehydrogenation occurred via lattice oxygen species. This improvement was attributed to the enrichment in the active Cr3+ sites and the suppressed evolution of the inactive α-chromia-alumina species as evidenced from results of their UV spectroscopy probing of the coordination environment.
Furthermore, Gomez et al. systematically investigated the impact of bimetallic interactions on CO2-assisted ODHP (CO2-ODHP) and dry reforming (DRP) of propane on CeO2-supported catalysts [111]. The target products were propylene and syngas (CO + H2) respectively. In both processes, the catalysts are required to activate the CO2 on the metallic site or on the oxygen vacancy of the ceria support. The catalysts were synthesized via incipient wetness impregnation and catalytic testing were done within kinetically controlled regime with minimal transport limitations. The Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Ni3Pt1 sample among the M3Pt1 (M = Ni, Fe or Co) displayed superior stable propane and CO2 conversions (11.6 and 39.4 % respectively at 823 K). Additionally, among the samples with nonprecious metals, CoxNiy and FexNiy were more active and selective for DRP and CO2-ODHP, respectively. Beyond Ni atomic ratio of 1, the selectivity functions in all the samples favor DRP. However, further study is still needed to optimize the structure-activity functions of the bimetallic catalysts via morphology tuning. Similarly, sub-nanometer Pt clusters stabilized on a hybrid SnO/Al2O3 support (Pt8−10/SnO/Al2O3/AAO) were reported to be highly selective to propylene (21.9 % conv., 65.2 % select. at 500 °C) in ODHP [112]. The observation was attributed to interactions of the under-coordinated Pt sites available in the small Pt clusters with the propane molecules. A DFT study on Pd(111) and Pd(211) revealed that irrespective of the surfaces and reaction intermediates, PDH or hydroxyl-mediated C–H activation are more favored compared to ODHP, indicating that the dehydrogenation kinetics is not significantly influenced by oxygen [113].
Besides, Kharlamova et al. revealed that the sequence of integrating the active phase onto a support has significant influence on the phase composition evolution and consequently the catalytic activity [114]. The authors incorporated lanthanum into V2O5/SiO2 catalyst system, and they found that modifying the support (to form V2O5/La2O3–SiO2) was highly promotive to propylene selectivity due to formation of LaVOx phases. The trend in propylene selectivity followed the order V2O5/La2O3–SiO2 >> V2O5/SiO2 > La2O3/V2O5–SiO2. They also confirmed the formation a crystalline LaVO4 phase in the La2O3/V2O5–SiO2, which was suggested as the reason for the declined activity and selectivity in the sample.
Furthermore, synthesis of V-Zr-O catalyst via electrospinning offered advantage of achieving higher dispersion of catalytically active VOx species at high loading (up to 6 w/w% V loading) without evolution of V2O5 phase, compared to wet impregnation method [115]. Moreover, the transformation of zirconia from metastable tetragonal to monoclinic phase was suppressed, and the V-Zr-O catalyst had a fibrous morphology in submicron scale. Consequently, the catalyst displayed stable ODHP performance (17.4 % conv., 27.4 % select., at 350 °C) without observable deactivation ensuing. Usually, higher V loadings is known to favour the V2O5 phase formation [116], which could get reduced to the V2O3 phase after initial interaction with propane from the feed. The V2O5 phase usually prompts the dehydrogenation reaction to proceed via direct dehydrogenation route (PDH) [117]. The higher intrinsic activity of the V2O5 phase relative to monovanadate species (isolated VOx species) is due to its lower C–H activation enthalpies [118], and that is detrimental to propylene selectivity. In conclusion, understanding the structural nature of active sites involved in different catalytic systems and the various factors that influence them, is crucial to innovative design and tuning of catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).
2.6. Switching of active centers during ODHP process
Obviously, active sites in catalytic systems require the right reaction conditions to set in, prior to becoming fully activated. In oxidative reactions over oxide catalysts, thermal activation of catalysts may prompt phase transition from a less active/selective phase to another which is highly active/selective [119]. As such, temperature ramping during reaction may result in modulating the relative dominance of the more selective phase, thereby ensuring variation in observed catalytic product distribution. Besides, depletion or decline in concentration of a particular kind of active site when a catalyst is investigated for time-on-stream (TOS) operation may prompt other kind of active sites to takeover. This will be obvious through dramatic changes in the product distribution that may ensue as the reaction becomes catalyzed via another route. Typically, as ODHP reaction progresses, the available selective lattice oxygen will be consumed, and the surface of the reduced catalyst will be more enriched with coordinatively unsaturated cations as active sites that usually facilitate direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH).
Typically, Xiong et al. investigated switching of active centers in γ-alumina-supported vanadium oxide catalysts during oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). They synthesized catalysts with different VOx surface structure via incipient wetness impregnation (IWI) to account for the variations in product distribution with time-on-stream [120]. The synthesized mV/ γ-Al2O3 catalysts had mass loading of V atom m = 1, 6, 20, corresponding to monomeric (structure I), polymeric (structure II), and crystalline (structure III) vanadium active phases, respectively (Fig. 8). The results of the catalytic testing suggested a plausible rerouting in the reaction mechanism due to variation in the product distribution over time (Fig. 8). At the initial stage, H2O was the major product instead of H2, indicating that ODHP was dominant. According to their results of in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) coupled with DFT simulations, terminal oxygen species (V = O) available on the surface of all the three different catalysts facilitated ODHP during the initial phase of the dehydrogenation. With the depletion of the V = O sites, bridge oxygen species (V-O-Al) in structure I and II, and three-coordinated surface oxygen (V-O-V) in structure III switched as the active centers, steering the dehydrogenation via PDH route. Additionally, coordinatively unsaturated V atoms in the crystalline VOx catalyst were active for the PDH. The revelations from these structure − performance relationships is important in designing catalysts with requisite stable active sites to match expected product distribution.
Download : Download high-res image (477KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. ODHP performance of alumina-supported VOx catalysts and their structures (a) 1V-Al2O3 (structures I; monomeric VO3/Al2O3) (b) 6V-Al2O3 (structures II; dimeric V2O5/Al2O3) (c) 20V-Al2O3 (structures III; crystalline V2O5(001) surface). The alumina is represented by γ-Al2O3(100). Color schemes: V, gray; Al, green; O, red [120] (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article).
Most recently, Jin et al. investigated structure-property relationship in CO2-assisted ODHP over Ru-promoted chromium oxide catalyst [121]. Through their C3H6 + CO2-TP-MS (temperature programmed mass spectrometry) experiments, CO2-TPD and CO2 hydrogenation experiments, they confirmed the occurrence of catalytic route evolution. Evidently, Cr10OX/SiO2 facilitated the reaction via direct dehydrogenation (PDH), and incorporation of 1 wt % Ru (RuCr10OX/SiO2) introduced RWGS and it shifted the equilibrium of the PDH towards more propylene. Further 3 wt% Ru incorporation (RuCr10OX/SiO2) introduced reforming reaction and it shifted the PDH equilibrium toward less propylene. However, a plausible reason for the multiple route evolution could be due to bifunctionality introduced by the Ru promoter in the active phase.
3. Strategies of tuning ODHP catalysts
In this part, the discussion is focused on reported strategies in modulating crucial catalytic properties of catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). Interestingly, these methodologies could be utilized in tuning other heterogeneous catalysts, especially those for exothermic oxidative reactions such as oxidative coupling of methane (OCM). The key properties discussed include oxide-support interaction, oxygen vacancy, acid–base property, and surface oxide reducibility. Fine-tuning these catalytic features has significantly contributed in improving the activity, selectivity, and stability of the ODHP catalysts reported. It should be noted that these properties are not strictly independent. As such, it should be expected that tuning one of them could results in modulation of another related property. But for convenience, we discussed the tuning of the properties under different subsections separately, and the discussion is mostly on metal oxide ODHP catalysts. Generally, the various strategies of tuning the structure-performance relationship of heterogeneous oxide catalysts is depicted on Fig. 9. The aim of tuning catalysts is basically to improve their catalytic activity, selectivity and stability in particular application. Noteworthy, the extent of tuning the property-activity functions is also largely influenced by the catalyst synthesis methods and the physicochemical property of the constituent metals or their precursors. Table 3 provides a table of comparison for various catalysts used in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).
Download : Download high-res image (194KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. An illustration of the various strategies of modulating crucial properties of heterogeneous catalyst towards improved performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability.
Table 3. Some catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene.
Catalyst Synthesis/design strategy Max.
C3H8 Conv. (%) C3H6 Selec. (%) Temp. (oC) Reaction conditions Reactor type Ref.
VOx/SBA-15 Wet impregnation method 12.1 68.0 550 0.1 g catalyst C3:O2 mol ratio = 2:1, space velocity =1500 mL (gcat min)−1 Fixed bed quartz tube down-flow reactor [107]
Mesoporous Ni-Mo-O Hydrothermal followed by wet impregnation 17.5 65.0 550 100 mg catalyst, C3/O2/Ar in molar ratio 1/1/8 at 20 mL/min total flowrate Quartz tubular micro-reactor [109]
Bulk Ni-Mo-O Grinding in mortar 15.0 41.0
ZIF-8 derived Co3O4 Ultrasound-assisted impregnation 18.3 24.4 250 0.25 g catalyst diluted
with quartz in a 1:1 mass ratio. C3/O2/N2 = 2.5:2.5:95, 20 mLmin−1, WHSV of 48000 mL∙g-1∙h-1 Flow-type quartz reactor [124]
V2O5/graphene Hydrothermal method 4.74 92.35 475 0.02−0.3 g catalyst, C3:Air/N2 at 150:l50 ml/min Tubular fixed bed micro-reactor [125]
FeVxOy Sol-gel method 23.1 46.5 520 0.2 g catalyst, C3H8:O2 = 1:1 (molar ratio), GHSV=6000 mL/(g h) quartz tubular reactor [126]
VMgO/MCM-41 Wet impregnation 41.0 12.0 450 C3/O2/N2 at molar ratio 11:23:66 % out of 43 mL min−1 Conventional fixed bed reactor [127]
MoOx/Nanodiamond
MoOx/CNT Wetness impregnation 15.0
30.0 62.0
25.0 450
450 0.2 g catalyst, C3H8/O2/He 3:3:34, 40 mL min − 1 Quartz fixed-bed continuous flow reactor [128]
Cr–Al pillared clay Ion exchange method 26.7 62.0 450 0.5 g catalyst, Ar/C3/O2 80/10/10 of total flow of 50 mL min1 U-shaped fixed bed reactor [129]
VOx/Dendritic Silica Hydrothermal method 8.0 77.0 0.15 g catalyst, C3/O2/N2 = 2:1:15, the total flow was 72 mL min-1 Fixed bed quartz reactor [130]
Mesoporous Ga2O3–Al2O3 Hydrothermal 11.2 92.4 500 200 mg catalyst C3H8:CO2:He 1:5:9; total flow rate=30 cm3 min1 Flow-type quartz reactor packed [131]
V–Sb–O/SiO2 Two-step impregnation method 40.1 65.6 600 0.1 g catalyst, C3/O2/N2 had a molar ratio of 1/1/8 Fixed bed quartz reactor [132]
VOx/ZrO2−γAl2O3 Wet impregnation technique 24.8 93.0 550 Consecutive feed injection with reaction time = 20 s, C3H8 injected =10 mL, 0.76 g catalyst CREC Riser Simulator [133]
VOx/γAl2O3 25.7 89.3 550
VOx/MSN Hydrothermal method 58 81 600 0.2 g catalyst, C3H8/Ar/CO2 (molar ratio) = 1:4:4; inlet flow =15 mL min−1, space velocity: 4500 cm3 gcat −1 h−1 Fixed bed reactor [134]
Cr-TUD-1 Hydrothermal method 24 87 500 C3/CO2 10.5/2.55 mL min−1), and an inert
gas at a constant 1020 h−1 GHSV Fixed-bed micro reactor [135]
Fe-MFI-24G-1073a Grafting method (H-(ZSM-5 from Sinopec) 46.3 64.8 200 mg catalyst, C3/N2O/He of 7.5:15:77.5, GHSV=15,000 mL h−1 g−1, 15 min TOS fixed-bed flow micro-reactor (ID:4 mm) [136]
Fe-MFI-24IS-873a Isomorphous substitution followed by extraction 46.7 50.2 [136]
Fe/ZSM-5 Solid-state exchange method 13.0 50.0 450 0.2 g N2O/C3H8 11.2%, He balance, GHSV = 15,000 h1 Fixed-bed flow micro-reactor [137]
a
Fe-MFI-24x-y: x and y represent the synthesis method and calcination temperature respectively.
3.1. Oxygen vacancy
3.1.1. Origin of oxygen vacancy and its refilling
Most of the catalysts explored for oxidative dehydrogenation reactions are metal oxide systems. The oxygen species available within the lattice of the oxides are called lattice oxygens, and other kinds of reactive oxygen species with different catalytic behaviour under ODHP conditions may equally be present on the oxide surface. Koch et al. revealed that several oxygen groups including lattice oxygen (Olat), defect-related oxygen atoms (Odefect), adsorbed oxygen species (Oads), and hydroxyl groups (OOH) were available on the surface of AMnO3 (A = La, Sm) perovskite catalysts, evidenced from ambient-pressure XPS analysis [122]. The authors found that increase in the abundance of the OOH and Oads oxygen species under wet feed led to significant improvement in propylene selectivity during oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). It should be noted that Oads oxygen species are electrophilic in nature and could participate in C–H activation at low temperature [99]. In an ODHP study with Au/TiO2 catalyst, the gold nanoparticles effectively activated oxygen species from the gas phase, and the adsorbed oxygens on the TiO2 were found to be responsible for propylene formation [123].
Obviously, the process of oxygen vacancy formation during oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) begins through the direct participation of available lattice oxygen species in C-H activation [22]. After the C–H activation, hydroxyl groups are formed on the sites. With the formation of water molecules from two adjacent OH groups and subsequent desorption, the lattice oxygens are consumed and oxygen vacancies are formed as depicted in Eq. 5. The vacancies generated on the reduced surface must be refilled before the next catalytic cycle. The vacancies might be replenished through subsurface lattice oxygen migration [138] or re-oxidation of the reduced cations by surface-chemisorbed oxygen species from the gas phase [139] as depicted in the Fig. 10. A redundant oxygen atom which could be more active compared to the restored lattice oxygen may ensue on the oxide surface in the later mechanism [140]. Depending on the nature of oxide, oxygen vacancy could be healed via nucleation of the reduced cations along with exposure of new underlying lattice plane [141]. The refilling process through surface-subsurface interactions in oxygen-free atmosphere might help to sustain the selectivity function of ODHP catalysts toward desired product.
(5)
Download : Download high-res image (184KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Oxygen vacancy refilling to regenerate active sites on reduced oxide surface [147].
The nature of the oxidants such as O2 or N2O strongly affects the rate of oxygen vacancy re-oxidation [32]. In addition, the stability and position of an oxygen vacancy (whether located on the outermost surface or at a heterointerface) have great influence on how readily it is refilled [142]. On the same oxide layer, diffusion toward the surface is more favoured than in the horizontal direction [143]. Besides, oxygen vacancy (OV) may result from defects, inherent or engineered on the lattice of metal oxide catalysts [144,145]. A study on the kinetics of VOx/TiO2 surface re-oxidation by Słoczyński revealed that oxygen vacancies are quickly replenished at 473 K by gaseous phase oxygen, with formation of nucleophilic oxygen (O(s)2−) exclusively at temperatures above 550 K [146]. Obviously, modulating oxygen vacancy (OV) through surface engineering techniques could provide an important alternative for tuning the catalytic behavior of metal oxide ODHP catalysts.
3.1.2. Asymmetrical oxygen vacancy
The local environment of an oxygen vacancy is a key factor that determines how the vacancy might significantly influence the catalytic behavior of the oxide catalyst. Recently, Yu et al. reviewed an interesting approach in tuning oxide catalysts via exploiting asymmetric bonding configuration of vacancies in mixed oxide catalysts [148]. Single metal oxides usually have their lattice oxygens or vacancies symmetrically coordinated with their cations. Lattice substitution of one of the cations with another different metal may disrupt the symmetric coordination, resulting in formation of asymmetric oxygen vacancy (AOV) at the site. An asymmetric oxygen vacancy (AOV) is a vacancy site that is coordinated with different cations in an unsymmetrical arrangement. Fig. 11a and b depict some asymmetric oxygen vacancies on a doped-ceria and at interfacial region in an oxide-supported metal catalyst, respectively. Oxygen vacancy located within asymmetrically coordinated cations or at interfacial location in an oxide system may present improved redox property [149]: an ability to have less energy barrier in both healing the vacancy by a dissociative adsorbed oxygen species from the gas phase and the subsequent release of the formed lattice oxygen during next catalytic cycle (Fig. 11c). Fig. 11d depicts an ODHP mechanism where asymmetrical oxygen vacancy are the possible active sites [46]. The activation of the propane molecules proceeded via a heterolytic hydrogen abstraction. Most recently, Zhao et al. reported successful introduction of transition metal (M = Fe, Co, and Ni) into the crystal lattice of CeO2 catalyst [150]. Such modulation prompted a spontaneous generation of asymmetrical oxygen vacancy (AOVs). The AOVs facilitated the activation and dissociation of water to reactive hydroxyl group on the oxide surface. Notably, designing of heterogeneous catalysts for tailored applications such as oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) via controlled interface formation in supported-oxide could offer alternatives in improving catalytic performance.
Download : Download high-res image (501KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. a) Depiction of asymmetric oxygen vacancy (AOV) sites in a) a doped-ceria oxide. b) at the edge of an oxide-metal interface. c) Redox property of asymmetrical oxygen vacancy [148]. d) ODHP Mechanism involving oxygen vacancy as active sites, where propane activation proceeded via heterolytic hydrogen abstraction [46].
3.1.3. Strategies of tuning oxygen vacancy
3.1.3.1. Doping with heteroatoms
The crucial role that oxygen vacancy (OV) plays in promoting the catalytic activity of oxide catalysts in various heterogeneous reactions has prompted exploration of strategies to engineer and regulate the vacancies. One of these approaches is doping of the oxide catalyst with a heteroatom [151]. Generally, introduction of heteroatoms into the structure of oxides can result in significant modulation of the catalytic behaviour of the oxide. When one of the cations of an oxide is substituted by a heteroatom, significant changes could be triggered due to size effect or the quest for compensating charge imbalance. Usually, lower valence metals are introduced to decrease the cost of oxygen vacancy formation. This will then lead to improvement in the reducibility of the oxide [151]. Lower valence metals have high tendency toward oxidation to more stable higher valence state. The fact that oxygen is electrophilic in nature, the presence of the introduced low-valent dopant is expected to make the surface of the host more electron deficient, thereby inducing anionic vacancy creation to compensate for the charge imbalance. Moreover, depending on the nature of the host and the dopant, heteroatoms with larger ionic radius are likely to lower the barrier for oxygen vacancy formation more, compared to smaller ones [152]. Thus, the lowering of the energy for oxygen vacancy formation when lower valence cations are introduced may not be strictly due to contribution from charge compensation alone.
Apart from chemical valence mismatch, intimate contact between the constituents of mixed oxide catalysts is crucial in tuning oxygen vacancy via triggered electronic interaction. Such intimate contact and interaction can be tuned via synthesis of the oxides in reverse microemulsion system [153], through regulating the water/surfactant molar ratio as depicted in Fig. 12a. As the ratio decreases, smaller water-in-oil droplets are generated, leading to formation of smaller mixed oxides particles and better charge transfer among the constituents. Wu et al. found that such intimate contact in a Mg-La mixed oxide prompted electron transfer from La2O3 to MgO, and lowered the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation on the former [153]. In addition, more adsorbed oxygen species were formed on the MgO during calcination due to the resulting electron density. In such mixed oxides, the electronic charge transfer is only possible when the fermi level of the lower valence Mg species is below that of the donor (in this case, La2O3) [154], as depicted in Fig. 12b. Otherwise, the charge transfer will be in the opposite direction. The fermi level of metals is located inside their valence band, and the fermi level at the interface of the Mg-La mixed oxide is expected to be modulated when the constituent species are in close contact [140,155].
Download : Download high-res image (244KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. a) Tuning electronic interaction (via intimate contact) during the synthesis of a doped oxide catalyst via microemulsion technique. b) Charge transfer due to difference in work function between a host oxide and a dopant.
In oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), oxide catalysts, oxygen species that are much strongly bounded (highly nucleophilic) are more selective. This implies that for a catalyst with loosely bound electrophilic oxygen species, increasing the barrier to oxygen vacancy formation is important for enhanced ODHP selectivity. However, it should be noted that increasing the M–O strength to improve propylene selectivity is likely to come with a cost in propane conversion decline. As such, tradeoff in modulating the barrier to oxygen vacancy formation is necessary in order to have oxide catalysts with optimal reducibility and significantly improved activity and selectivity. Typically, Chen et al. revealed that Mo-doping in Mo-V-O mixed oxide ODHP catalyst resulted in significant modulation of the oxygen vacancy formation, as evidenced from their in situ characterizations along with DFT calculations [156]. The Mo-V-O mixed oxides were synthesized via co-impregnation process, and Mo-doping induced significant increase in the strength of the VO bonds, leading to higher barrier in oxygen vacancy formation. The authors attributed the increase in the binding energy of the Mo 3d for Mo-V-O to possible strong surface interaction that prompted electronic transfer from the Mo to V. The charge redistribution decreased the proportion of the V5+ species, thereby limiting the evolution of unselective oxygens. This implied that the oxygen species (VO, VOV and V3O) in the Mo-V-O mixed oxides became more nucleophilic in nature in comparison to those in undoped VOx system. The Mo-V-O catalyst gave conversion of about 36 % with 89 % propylene selectivity. In supported oxide catalysts, incorporation of inert materials such as TiO2 is another promising approach to tune the oxygen vacancy formation [157].
3.1.3.2. Regulating vacancy-rich oxides
Control tuning of oxygen vacancy in vacancy-rich oxides such as ceria (CeO2) and zirconia (ZrO2) can open up their applications in diverse selective oxidative reactions. The vacancies could be effectively tuned to tailored-reactivity by a guest molecule that can preferentially target vacancies, or via controlled reduction of the vacancy concentration. Notably, ceria has been applied in various catalytic oxidation reactions. However, due to its high oxygen vacancy-rich nature [158], it is seldomly applied to catalyze selective oxidative dehydrogenation without appropriate doping with heteroatoms. Otherwise, it is used as a support along with a different active phase. Most recently, Liu et al. reported an effective strategy of boosting propylene selectivity of rod-shaped ceria catalyst (r-CeO2) in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) [159]. According to the authors, they achieved successful chlorination that targeted available surface oxygen vacancies without hydrogen treatment. The chloride ions (Cl−) preferentially occupied the superficial vacancies, prompting a drastic decrease in the amount of the vacancies (from 51 % down to 15 %) and simultaneous nucleation of oxygen species with modified chemical state (CeOCl). Moreover, the controlled chlorination raised the activation temperature of the catalyst by nearly 100 °C. The r-CeO2−HCl catalyst displayed superior propylene selectivity (from less than 5%–50% at 450 °C) relative to the unmodified r-CeO2. At around 250 min time-on-stream (TOS), r-CeO2−HCl stabilized at three-fold propylene selectivity (25 % at 450 °C) while both catalysts maintained comparable activities (around 10 % propane conv.) Besides, use of molecular chlorine in ODHP over Ru/TiO2 catalyst resulted in outstanding performance (50 % con., 95 % propylene select., at 400 °C) [160]. The performance was attributed to formation of ruthenium oxychloride active centers.
On another perspective, You et al. reported that controlled reduction of oxygen vacancy concentration in ceria-based catalyst via selective incorporation of niobium oxide (NbOX) had a profound positive influence on the ODHP selectivity [45]. The Nb5+ precursor preferentially interacted with surface oxygen vacancies of the hydrothermally synthesized CeO2 rods, thereby causing a decline in their concentration. This modification resulted in drastic shift in the catalytic behavior of the CeO2 rods from propane combustion majorly, to oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP). The propylene selectivity was nearly six-fold (48 % at 300 °C) for a catalyst with doping level of 3.3 Nb atoms per nm2 of CeO2 surface. Nonetheless, the oxygen vacancy of CeO2 could also be stepped up significantly by doping with smaller cations (Hf 4+and Sn 4+) that result in lower cation to anion radius ratio in the crystal structure [161]. This is achievable through the redox transformation of some of the Ce4+ ions (r=0.097 nm) to Ce3+ (r=0.1143 nm) leading to the release of some lattice oxygen to generate vacancies. Thus, the tunable surface chemistry available in oxygen vacancy-rich metal oxides such as ceria (CeO2) and other tailored-oxides such as TaO5 provides unique advantage in innovative design of novel catalysts that could have outstanding performance in ODHP reaction. These advantages include ease of creating new sites at interfaces or redistribution of the vacancies via thermal annealing or steam treatment [162], and target reduction in concentration of vacancies to achieve tailored-reactivity [45,159].
3.1.3.3. Morphology-induced tuning of oxygen vacancy
In the works of You et al. [45] previously discussed, the authors improved the propylene selectivity of the vacancy-rich CeO2 through reduction in concentration of the vacancies. However, the vacancy-richness of the CeO2 can also be harnessed to design ODHP catalysts with improved selectivity without necessarily decreasing the oxygen vacancy concentration. Xie et al. exemplified such alternative via a catalytic route that facilitate ODHP on CeO2-based catalysts with different morphologies in the presence of (O2 + HCl) [163]. The authors suggested that the C–H activation was not facilitated directly by the available lattice oxygens or vacancies, rather by generated Cl radical-like species. The mechanism begins with O2 being adsorbed on O-vacancy site, leading to the formation of peroxide
species. The peroxide species are electrophilic in nature, and they oxidized the available Cl− into the Cl-like species.
Obviously, increasing the vacancy concentration on the surface of the CeO2 catalyst is beneficial in order to have more of the radical-like Cl to selectively catalyze the C–H activation. As such, the authors increased the concentration of the oxygen vacancy (OV) in the CeO2 nanocrystals via morphology-induced modulation [163]. They synthesized CeO2 oxides with different morphologies and different predominantly exposed crystallographic facets. It was achieved via hydrolysis of Ce (III) salts in alkaline medium followed by hydrothermal treatments. The authors utilized Raman spectroscopy along with DFT calculation to investigate the variation in the OV among the catalysts. Based on their UV Raman results shown on Fig. 13(IA & IIA), the peaks at 592 cm −1 and 462 cm -1 are associated with OV and resonance Raman effect, respectively. Their ratios were used as estimate for the relative concentration of the OV, and the trend was rod > cube > octahedraon ≈ nanoparticle. The rod-CeO2 sample with predominantly (111) and (100) exposed facets showed the highest propane conversion rate.
Download : Download high-res image (471KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. (I). Raman spectra for CeO2 nanocrystals with different morphologies (A) UV Raman, (B) Visible Raman. II). Raman spectra for NiO − CeO2 catalysts with various NiO contents A) UV Raman, (B) Visible Raman [163].
Besides, several dopants (V 5+, Mo 6+, Mg 2+, Fe 3+, Cu 2+, Zn 2+, and Ni 2+) were used to further tune the oxygen vacancy formation. Among all, the NiO-modified CeO2 nanorods resulted in the most outstanding ODHP performance (∼70 % propane conv., 80 % propylene selectivity). A plausible explanation was that the Ni2+ cations were most efficient in triggering the redox transformation of the Ce 4+ to Ce 3+ species. The triggered redox transformation most probably ensued due to the quest to compensate the charge imbalance caused by possible lattice substitution of the Ce cations with a fraction of the Ni2+ low-valent ions. It should be noted that lower valence cations have propensity toward oxidation to stable higher states, and with such transition, the surface of the host becomes more electrophilic, thereby lowering the barrier to anionic vacancy formation and modifying the surface reducibility of the oxide [151]. Apart from the lattice substitution by the Ni2+ cations, small NiO clusters were also formed on the CeO2 nanorods surface.
3.1.3.4. Interfacial charge modulation
Most recently, Lee et al. revealed that interfacial charge modulation is a promising strategy to boosting oxygen vacancy (OV) on a colossal scale in hybrid oxides [164]. They utilized pulse laser epitaxy (PLE) technique to achieve epitaxial growth of CeO2/Y2O3 nanobrush structures, with the sublayers of the oxides interfacially connected via their {111} facets. Due to oxygen coordination mismatch at the (111) interface coupled with lattice expansion of the ceria at interfaced regions, a rapid transformation of Ce 4+ to Ce 3+ was induced (Fig. 14). Consequently, huge amount of oxygen vacancies was excited at the heterointerface. All these were evident from their results of electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) and Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy (STEM) corroborated along with a hybrid DFT calculation. Similarly, Wu et al. reported that incorporation of Mn into vanadium doped CeO2 (VOX/CeO2) system with preferentially exposed {110} facets has facilitated more oxygen vacancy formation [165]. The catalyst was employed for selective catalytic reduction of NOx by NH3. Despite the fact that these examples are not for ODHP application, it is obvious that controlled tuning of oxygen vacancy formation holds great prospects in revealing new horizons in the design of catalyst materials. And the ideas illustrated here could be used utilized in developing novel ODHP catalyst that could suppress the competing the over-oxidation reactions.
Download : Download high-res image (472KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 14. a) Geometric phase analysis (GPA) of the HAADF image revealing lattice expansion of CeO2 layer at interface. b) Distributions profile of Cation and oxygen vacancy (OV) at the (111) CeO2/Y2O3 interface, derived via hybrid Monte Carlo (MC) and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. At the interface, there was simultaneous Ce3+ enrichment and rapid oxygen vacancies formation within the CeO2 [164].
3.2. Acid-base properties of catalysts
3.2.1. Origin of acid-base property
Acid-base property is another important property of heterogeneous catalysts, especially in their oxidative catalytic roles. This property originates from the nature of electronic charge distribution within the constituent metal cations (acidic centers), and the oxygen and hydroxyl groups (basic centers) located on the surface of oxide catalysts [166]. As such, changes in the lattice and electronic structure of the oxide catalysts is expected to influence their surface acidity and basicity, and consequently their catalytic behaviors. As discussed previously, oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is usually facilitated by surface available lattice oxygen species (in case of oxides) or hydroxyl groups (in case of other catalysts such as h-BN). The nature of the acid-base property of oxide catalysts modulates the interaction of reactant and intermediates molecules with catalytic surfaces, thereby significantly impacting on the performance and coke deposition tendency [167,168].
Fig. 15 depicts oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) on acid-base pair over ceria catalyst surface. The ODHP is initiated by electron and proton transfer from C3H8 to the oxidative site (Ce4+) and Brønsted base site (O2−), respectively [169], as depicted on Fig. 15a. The nature and strength of the bonds between the acidic and basic site pairs determine the acid-base character of catalysts. Accordingly, the sites could be qualified as strong, moderate, or weak sites. Important techniques such as operando photoelectron photoion coincidence (PEPICO) spectroscopy [170], temperature programmed desorption (TPD), Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy (FTIR with probe), diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS), synchrotron radiation photoelectron spectroscopy (SRPES) [171] can be used to probe the nature and distribution of acidic and basic sites available on surfaces of catalysts.
Download : Download high-res image (295KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 15. a) Schematic representation of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene over acid-base pair on ceria catalyst surface. (a) The ODHP is initiated by electron and proton transfer from C3H8 to the oxidative site (Ce4+) and Brønsted base site (O2−), respectively. (b) Mechanism of the transfer depicting changes in electron affinity and proton affinity as the driving force [169].
3.2.2. Catalyst deactivation via coke formation
Depending on the nature of the catalyst and operating conditions such as temperature, coke is usually formed on the surface of catalysts used in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). As such, coke deposition on the active phase is a major deactivation phenomenon in ODHP catalysts. Some discussion about the influence of acid-based property in ODHP was made previously while discussing LDH-derived mixed oxides. The ODHP catalytic performance of many LDH-derived mixed oxides correlates more to the strength of their Lewis and Brønsted acid sites than to their reducibility and other textural properties [92,93]. Olefins such as propylene have basic character, they are expected to strongly adsorb on highly acidic surfaces [172]. Typically, the high acidity and low basicity of an LDH-derived Mg-V-Al [94] and impregnation-derived Mg-V-Al [95] mixed oxides hampered the desorption of propylene on their surfaces, favoring oxidation of the propylene to CO products. A detail study by Blanco et al. on vanadium supported catalysts revealed that the acid-base character of the support is decisive on the dispersion and the nature of the vanadium species that ensue [173]. Consequently, the catalytic behaviour of the different vanadium-supported catalysts differed in oxidative dehydrogenation of C2-C4, with catalysts having tetrahedral V5+ species being more active and selective. The presence of strong acidic protons in Fe-zeolites was found to facilitate deposition of coke in the active extra-framework Fe species [167].
There are several strategies of suppressing coke formation on ODHP catalysts. This include careful doping of the active phase as exemplified by Crapanzano et al. in La2Ni1−xVxO4+1.5x+I catalyst [174]. The authors found that the presence of the V species in the catalyst structure was beneficial in suppressing coke formation. The incorporated V species stabilized the available lattice oxygens and the over-stoichiometric oxygens, thereby inhibiting the evolution of the Ni metal species. The Ni species are known to decompose olefins into carbonaceous deposit (
) in oxidative dehydrogenation of light.
In addition, alumina is a thermally stable support with wide surface area, and has been widely used to support vanadium-based catalyst for ODHP. However, the high acidity of alumina is not only detrimental to dispersion of vanadium species, but also promotes strong adsorption of propylene in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. Incorporation of basic oxides provides an alternative in modulating the acidity as exemplified Rostom and de Lasa in V/γ-Al2O3 ODHP catalyst [36]. The authors revealed that use of a hybrid ZrO2-γAl2O3 support promoted evolution of isolated tetrahedral VOx species which are highly selective. Moreover, the chances of coke formation and cracking of reactant propane molecules and intermediates were significantly lowered, resulting in better propylene selectivity. It should be noted that other factors such as oxygen mobility may play a role in the coke formation, and appropriate doping with non-metals such as phosphorus can provide a viable alternative in modulating the oxygen mobility [108].
Besides, ODHP catalysts deactivated due to coke formation must be regenerated intermittently by combustion of the coke in air. Adsorbed oxygens that are usually electrophilic in nature may also assist in the coke combustion during catalytic cycle. It should be noted that despite the effort in the search for a highly selective and stable ODHP catalysts, there is need to have more researches focused on understanding the deactivation mechanisms of ODHP catalysts, such as the works of Wu et al. [137]. This may provide further insight in understanding the catalytic requirements in designing efficient catalysts that could increase the economic viability of the ODHP process.
3.2.3. Strategies on tuning acid-base property
3.2.3.1. Doping with heteroatom
Recently, Bakare et al. investigated reported modulation of the surface acidity of θ-Al2O3 in V-supported catalysts to steer the catalytic function from the overoxidation route to enhanced olefins production [175]. Obviously, supports with high acidity such as alumina and zeolites are known to strongly adsorb the intermediates of ODHP reaction, thereby leading to production of more COx products [176]. The authors reported that incorporation of basic oxides in the VOx /θ-Al2O3-M (M = MgO, CaO, or BaO) catalysts has significantly reduced the acid site concentration, resulting in improvement in the propylene yield. The presence of Brønsted acid sites on host lattice such as alumina is known to contribute significantly to higher activity but with suppressed propylene selectivity in ODHP [177]. However, from the work, there appears no general trend among the modified catalysts in their catalytic performance with concentration or strength of the surface acidity. Nonetheless, control of surface acidity provides a good handle to tradeoff conversion and propylene selectivity of ODHP catalysts.
Additionally, incorporation of Mg into MgVOx/Al2O3 catalyst was reported to have significantly reduced the spike in acid site concentration caused by surface formation of VOx species as evidenced from results of their pulsed NH3 adsorption (Fig. 16a) [178]. The reduction in the acid site concentration partly resulted in higher propylene yield. As the doping level increased, the Mg-modified catalysts have displayed better trade-off between conversion and selectivity (Fig. 16b). High acid site density (especially strong Lewis acid sites) typically results in strong adsorption of the propane or propylene molecules, thereby favoring overoxidation reaction. Similarly, it favors the competing side reactions such as cracking and skeletal isomerization in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on vanadium-based catalysts [179]. This suggests that balanced surface acidity is a prerequisite in enhancing the propylene selectivity of ODHP catalysts. Besides, Kantserova et al. reported the effect of acid-base character of In2O3–Al2O3 catalyst on CO2-assited ODHP reaction. They suggested possible activation of the propane and CO2 species on the Lewis acid sites and basic sites, respectively [180].
Download : Download high-res image (308KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 16. a) Acid site density of MgVOx/Al2O3 catalyst from a pulsed NH3 adsorption experiment at 100–450 °C. b) ODHP performance at ∼6% propane conversion at 500 °C [178].
Delgado et al. conducted a systematic study probing the influence of various promoters (Me = K+, Al3+, Ce3+, La3+, Zr4+, Sn4+, Nb5+) on the catalytic performance of NiO catalysts for ODH of light alkanes (C2-C3) to olefins in a fixed bed reactor [181]. The catalysts were synthesized via simple evaporation of ethanolic solution of nickel nitrate and the precursor salts of the promoters. Catalysts promoted with high valence dopants (Nb5+, Sn4+ or Zr4+) had more proportion of Lewis sites, and that resulted in improved propylene selectivity (Fig. 17a). In addition, catalysts promoted with these dopants showed lower concentration of electrophilic oxygen species (O−), as evident from their XPS analysis (Fig. 17b). Obviously, promotion of the NiO catalyst with Nb5+ and Zr4+ cations has greatly limited the evolution of the unselective electrophilic oxygen species. Instead, the catalysts had more nucleophilic oxygen species (O2-), and consequently showed the highest olefins selectivity.
Download : Download high-res image (288KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 17. 0 (a) Selectivity to propylene product (at 10 % alkane conversion) as a function of amount of CO adsorbed (obtained from normalized CO-IR peaks at saturation and 350 °C). b) Selectivity to olefins (ethylene + propylene) as function of electrophilic oxygens derived from XPS analysis [181].
3.2.3.2. Selective substitution in flexible 3D structures
Most recently, Petit et al. reported a proton conduction-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on vanadium-modified hydroxyapatite (V-HAp). The catalysts were synthesized via co-precipitation method [182]. The flexibility of the V-HAp 3D-framework offers advantage of controlled substitution of the Ca2+ ions or PO4 units to modify its composition and structure, particularly for catalytic applications [183]. Accordingly, the insertion of VO4 units into the HAp structure and their preferential relaxation in the subsurface resulted in more surface exposure of the Ca2+ - O 2− acid-base pair (Fig. 18a). The authors suggested that proximity of the O2- basic site to Ca 2+ species led to stable catalytic performance in the C–H bond activation even at higher temperature. The nucleophilic O2- species participated as electron pair donors (EPDs) [184]. As the vanadium content (x) in the Ca10(PO4)6-x(VO4)x(OH)2−2yOy catalyst increased, the propylene selectivity increased, however, with a decline in the H2 production (Fig. 18b). This suggested high possibility of mechanism rerouting from being largely direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) at higher x value.
Download : Download high-res image (521KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 18. a) A schematic representation of relative Ca2+ ions surface enrichment and corresponding relaxation of VO4 units in the subsurface of vanadium-modified hydroxyapatite (V-HAp), Ca10(PO4)6-x(VO4)x(OH)2-2yOy, as vanadium content (x) increases. The unmodified Hap has enriched protonated terminal PO4 units (2nd structure). b) Variation in the amounts of reaction products (C3H6 and H2) in ppm with vanadium content at 723 K and 7.4:2.2 v % C3H8/O2, the balance is He, 12.5 mLNTP min−1 total flow. c) Plausible mechanism of direct dehydrogenation (PDH) and oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene on V-Hap catalyst (Ca2+-O2- acid-base pairs) facilitated via proton migration [182].
The calcination temperature [185] and synthesis method [186] can significantly affect the insertion of the dopant (V in this case) into the HAp framework and tendency to agglomeration on the surface. The HAps could as well be used as catalytic support material [187]. Noteworthy, the ODHP mechanism over the V-HAps catalyst system proceeded via proton migration [182]. However, since the system is an oxide catalyst, it might be also possible that the conventional oxygen mobility-mediated mechanism occurred concurrently. The ODHP mechanism on the V-HAps catalyst via proton migration is depicted on Fig. 12c [182]. In the mechanism, thermal activation of nucleophilic O2− species (EPD) (at 773 K) via proton mobility represents the initial stage, which is followed by C–H bond activation and stabilization of the hydride formed. The propylene product generated get desorbed. At this stage, when the mechanism is dominated by direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH), H2 gas would be released. Otherwise, H2O molecule would be released followed by oxygen vacancy (OV) formation in the VO4 unit when ODHP is dominant. The OV would then be refilled by the gaseous oxygen (O2) prior to the next catalytic cycle.
3.3. Metal oxide-support interaction
3.3.1. Choice and role of support materials
In heterogeneous catalysis, high and stable performance of catalysts not only depends on the contribution from the active component and promoter, but also depends on the vital roles played by suitable support materials [188]. The electronic and structural properties of supports are important variables that modulate the vital interaction between active oxides and support materials. This interaction is an interface phenomenon called oxide-support interaction. It influences the overall catalytic function of supported-oxide catalysts. As such, vital metal oxide-support interactions are crucial in further promoting the performance (both activity and selectivity) of oxide-supported catalysts in various heterogeneous reactions such as oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). The textural and physicochemical properties of supports are essential in exploiting the role played by supports in achieving well-dispersed, highly reducible, and stable catalysts [189]. These properties include the surface area, pore architecture, thermal stability, acid-base nature, redox potential, and morphology of supports. Besides, the method or strategy employed to incorporate the active phase to the support material could significantly influence the synergistic interactions in oxide-supported catalysts [190]. Different synthesis methods may offer varying control level in terms of the location and stabilization of the supported oxides in the catalyst system, and invariably the oxide-support interactions that ensue. This suggests the need for efficient and optimized synthesis routes in modulating the oxide-support interaction.
Obviously, examining extensively the integrity of various support materials which could ensure superior oxide-support interaction and consequently high stable performance is paramount. However, this should be carried out under different reaction conditions, and the phase of the support material, whether single or mixed phase should be put to consideration. This would help to screen the possibility of complexation of the active species with the support especially at elevated temperatures, which could lead to loss of catalytic activity. The complexation usually arises due to strong interactions during possible phase transformation of the support material [191], and drastic decline in surface area may be observed [177]. Depending on the nature of support, partial breakdown of the support structure during calcination may also result in surface area loss [192]. Besides, poisoning of an ODHP vanadium-based catalyst was observed due to the diffusion of Fe species from the stainless steel substrate where the VOx active phase was coated [193].
The use of appropriate structured supports may provide alternatives to reduce the susceptibility of hotspot formation in highly exothermic reactions. Especially during high temperature operations, hotspots in catalytic bed could impact severely on the selectivity function of oxide catalysts [194]. Most recently, Ramirez et’al investigated the impact of localized heating in microwave-assisted ODHP of VMgO-coated SiC monolith and foam-like monolith [195]. They revealed that the presence of straight channels in SiC monolith resulted in higher solid–gas temperature gradient due to less intense heat transfer. Consequently, the non-selective pathways were suppressed in the SiC monolith. Liu et’al reported microemulsion technique as an efficient approach which achieved high concentration of well-dispersed isolated VOx species on dendritic mesoporous silica (DMSN) [130]. In comparison to V/SBA-15, the V/DMSN showed higher ODHP activity and propylene selectivity, mainly due to improved oxide-support interactions. The V/DMSN had 3D and center-radial pore structure with good active site accessibility. In an ODHP study with VOx-supported catalysts, the variation in microstructure of the Al2O3 support was found to have slight influence on the oxide-support interaction [196]. The effect of the microstructure variation was more pronounced in mass-transfer and diffusion. Thus, oxide-supported ODHP catalysts should be designed with the requisite structural characteristics for effective dynamic response to reaction conditions.
3.3.2. Strategies of tuning oxide-support interactions
Typically, controlled tuning of oxide-support interactions to enhance the catalytic performance provides vital option in the rational design of ODHP catalyst. Active sites (oxygen species) at the interface region between an oxide and a support matrix could have improved catalytic performance due to enhanced charge transfer [149,197]. Interestingly, additional or new active sites with tune-reactivity could also be engineered at interface regions in supported catalysts [198]. A DFT study on correlating the adsorption energy of some catalytic intermediates at metal-support interface (late transition metals and MgO (100) support) revealed that interfacial adsorption sites are quite unique from those at terrace [155]. Moreover, structural and electronic perturbations at heterojunctions strongly defines the adsorption strength of these intermediates [199].
Most recently, Deelen et al. reported a detailed review on the concept of metal-support interactions and strategies of regulating it to achieve improved catalytic performance [200]. Notably, oxide-support interactions may present in different schemes such as generation of new active sites or modulation of the inherent active sites available in the active oxide phase or increasing their population. Fig. 19 depicts strategies of tuning metal oxide-support interaction towards improved activity and selectivity of ODHP catalysts and other heterogeneous catalyst systems.
Download : Download high-res image (186KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 19. Strategies of tuning metal oxide-support interaction toward improved activity and selectivity of heterogeneous catalyst systems. These tuning methodologies could begin from property screening of the support materials, or during the catalyst synthesis or during post synthesis stage through thermal or chemical treatment.
3.3.2.1. Support modulation to tune oxide-support interaction
Controlled modification of support materials in supported catalysts can enhance oxide-support interactions. Khan et al. studied the reduction kinetics of VOX/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized via excess solvent impregnation method. They found that incorporation of ceria into the γ-Al2O3 support has weakened the strength of the interaction between the VOX species and the support, which led to lowered reduction activation energies in the VOX/Ce-Al2O3 catalysts [201]. The mild interaction brought about uniform dispersion of the VOX active phase, and the lattice oxygen species became more readily available. Al-Ghamdi et al. have also reported similar conclusion with VOX/c-Al2O3 [202], Koirala et al. investigated cobalt-supported systems on single supports (SiO2, Al2O3, TiO2 and ZrO2) and hybrid oxides (SiO2-Al2O3, SiO2-TiO2, SiO2-ZrO2 and TiO2-ZrO2) synthesized via flame spray pyrolysis [203]. The variation in the oxide-support interactions led to vast differences in reduction temperatures of the CoOX species. The authors revealed that the SiO2-supported catalyst had more well-dispersed CoOx species but also showed very high reduction temperature due to strong interaction between the active phase and the silica support. The strength and density of the acid sites of the silica support strongly influenced the interaction. This led to significant improvement in the reducibility of the cobalt-SiO2 catalyst.
A detailed investigation by Casaletto et al. on supported vanadyl orthophosphate revealed that the best dispersions of the vanadium phase were achieved on Al2O3, ZrO2 and TiO2 due to strong phosphate-support interaction [188]. Such interaction led to enhanced reducibility of the vanadium phase, and consequently led to highest ODHP performance compared to the SiO2, MgO and SnO supported samples that showed significant VPO aggregation. The aggregation of the VPO phase in the later supports ensued due to strong preferential vanadyl-phosphate interaction, and it favoured overoxidation. In addition, Rostom et al. reported tuning of oxide-support interaction of vanadium-based catalyst by incorporation of ZrO2 into γ-Al2O3 support via excess solvent impregnation [36]. Ammonia desorption kinetics of the hybrid γ-Al2O3-ZrO2 supports revealed an increase in the desorption energy of the catalyst with higher ZrO2 content due to modulation in the interaction of the VOx active phase with the support. Consequently, 7.5 %V/ZrO2-γAl2O3 displayed improved performance (24.8 % conv., 92.5 % propylene select. at 550 °C) in comparison to the unmodified 7.5 % VOX/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. In addition, the support modulation prompted dramatic increase in the ratio of the Bronsted/Lewis sites from 0.94 to 2.2. The kinetic modelling of the catalyst [17] for ODHP and application of the catalyst in ODH of ethane [204] have also been reported.
As mentioned earlier, nature of oxide supports do influences catalyst-support interactions and consequently the redox property and stabilization of the dispersed active phase [205]. Morphological difference in active phases or supports controls oxide-support interaction [206]. Liu et al. reported a morphology-dependent interaction in CeO2-supported NbOX catalyst used for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) [207]. The investigation involved NbOX/CeO2 systems: ceria cubes calcined at 500 °C (c-CeO2) and ceria rods calcined at 500 and 700 °C (r-CeO2–500 and r-CeO2–700). As the Nb (active phase) loading increased, the surface structures evolved from monomeric NbOX species to polymeric NbOX and CeNbO4 species. This implies that the Nb2O5 species dominated at higher loading, being the most thermodynamically stable phase. Interestingly, Nb5+ species preferentially interacted with oxygen vacancies on the ceria, resulting in more population of the monomeric Nb4+ species [45]. Due to morphology-dependent oxide-support interactions, the Nb5+ - Nb4+ species transformation was more for the rod-shaped catalysts (NbOx/r-CeO2–500) at higher NbOX surface density. However, the NbOx/r-CeO2-700 catalyst had the least concentration of Nb4+ species, indicating that thermal treatment had significant influence on the oxide-support interaction.
3.3.2.2. Active phase control to tune oxide-support interactions
Apart from direct modification of support, the incorporation of a second metal (a promoter) or other dopants such as phosphorus into the active phase also modulates oxide-support interactions. Neto et al. reported a vanadium-based catalyst supported on activated carbon (AC) derived from sugarcane straw [208]. The authors utilized phosphorous as a chemical activation agent for the support and it improved the dispersion of the VOx active phase. The well-dispersed AC-supported vanadium catalyst showed propane conversion of 30 % and 10 % propylene yield. However, after 3 h of stable performance (Fig. 20a), a drastic decline in the activity ensued, suggesting a possible structure collapse due to carbonization. The authors revealed that surface enrichment of phosphorus made the surface of the AC support more oxidized and led to the formation of V-P linkage. Such V-P linkages are suggested to be the possible factors that triggered the structure collapse of the AC support, as suggested by XPS analysis.
Download : Download high-res image (360KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 20. a) C3H8 conversion against time for the straw activated carbon (SAC) derived catalysts at 380 °C, using fixed bed reactor, (320 mg catalyst +35 mg SiC), 13 % C3O2/N2 of 13:18:69 v/v%, 35 mL min−1. b) C3H8 conversion against time for the Mg doped straw activated carbon (SAC) derived catalysts with Mg 420 °C and MCM. (11 % C3H6, 23 % O2, 66 % N2), 43 mL min−1.
In a recent development, the group incorporated Mg species to the active phase of the AC- and MCM-supported vanadium catalysts [127]. They revealed that the presence of Mg-V linkages (as MgV2O4 phase) in the Mg-V-O catalyst supported on activated carbon (AC) led to stabilization of the supports. In addition, the coexistence of Mg2V2O7 and MgV2O6 phases on the MCM material significantly improved ODHP performance, despite the presence of V2O5 species at higher V loadings. The presence of MgV2O4 (magnesiocoulsonite phase) stabilized the active phase while Mg2V2O7 (pyrovanadate phase) improved the propylene selectivity of the AC-supported catalysts. The stable performances of the Mg-V-O catalysts supported on Ac and MCM (Fig. 20b) were attributed to the presence of Mg-V linkages, despite presence of surface phosphate groups that may prone structure collapse via VP linkage formation [208]. This implies that the Mg-V linkages (due to interaction among active phase constituents) is beneficial in suppressing the detrimental effect of the VP linkages, despite coexisting in the catalyst. Grant et’al reported that presence of small amount of sodium ions (Na+) significantly improved the dispersion of VOx species on amorphous silica due to weakened interaction of surface neighboring vanadyl group [209].
Similarly, Sushchenko reported incorporation of Mg species into the active phase of MgO-V2O5/Al2O3 (VMgAl-x, x = 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5) via consecutive impregnation to modulate the surface phases towards improved ODHP catalytic performance [210]. Consequently, as the Mg/V ratio increased from 0 to1.5, the composition and structure of the active species evolved from mixture of V2O5 and polymeric VOx to a mixture of Mg2V2O7 and V2O5 phases. This implied that modulation of the active phase via the Mg addition contributed to the evolution of a new Mg2V2O7 phase that forms synergy with the unselective V2O5. Such synergistic interaction was suggested to be responsible for the observed improved propylene selectivity. In other words, the effect of the non-vital metal-support interaction that precipitated the unselective V2O5 is avoided through the synergy of the active phase constituents. At 12 % conversion, the VMgAl-1.5 displayed ∼63 % propylene selectivity while VMgAl-0 had ∼ 52.5 %. In addition, Ascoop et al. investigated a series of silica-supported WOx-VOx catalysts for CO2-assisted-ODHP [211]. They revealed that the tungstate-vanadate interaction significantly improved the reducibility and stabilization of the VOx active species during reaction. Also, the promotive role played by the WOx species prevented clustering of the VOx species which could have led to formation of non-selective oxygen species, especially at high temperatures.
3.3.2.3. Tuning oxide-support interaction via Synthesis method
Interestingly, atomic layer deposition (ALD) is highly prospective in generating well-dispersed VOX active phase on supports [212]. Most recently, Kazerooni reported that at the same V loading, VOX/TiO2 catalysts synthesized via ALD were more well-dispersed compared to those from incipient wetness impregnation (IWI) [214]. Also, vital oxide-support interactions in the ALD catalysts suppressed the diffusion of V4+ species into the titania lattice. The diffusion could have resulted in decreased accessibility to active sites due to induced anatase-to-rutile transformation of the TiO2 support [213]. Consequently, all the ALD catalysts had superior TOF conversion coupled with nearly quadrupled propylene selectivity compared to those from IWI at 300 °C.
Ruf et al. employed ALD (with graphene oxide as sacrificial matrix) to tune the oxide-support interaction in oxide-supported nanostructured vanadia catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethanol to acetaldehyde [215]. The generation of M − O–V (M = Al, Si) interphases (evident from UV Raman) coupled with higher dispersion achieved via the sequential ALD approach are suggested to be the reasons behind high turnover frequency (TOF) of the VOX/support catalysts. Fukudome et al. revealed a new concept of synthesizing mesoporous VOx/SiO2 with high density of isolated VOx species via an alkoxyexchange reaction between silica and vanadia precursors with PEG [216]. The degree of polymerization of the PEG was tuned to control the synthesis process. The catalyst displayed 3% propane conversion and 88.3 % propylene selectivity during ODHP. An illustration of the high dispersion of the VOx active phase in the silica matrix is shown on Fig. 21.
Download : Download high-res image (212KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 21. A schematic illustration of dispersion of isolated VO43− species in SiO2 matrix for catalysts synthesized via (a) alkoxyexchange reaction of silica and vanadia precursors with PEG and (b) wet impregnation. Incorporation of the VOx species into the silica framework via impregnation method showed higher chances of evolution of polymeric V2O5 phase [216].
Generally, supported active phase usually exists as a mixture of phases, and some of the constituents might not be selective or active for a reaction. Notably, varying the ratio of constituents of the active phase can provide a handle to tune the oxide-support interaction to trigger phase transformation. As discussed earlier, Fan et al. reported ordered mesoporous NiMo-based catalysts synthesized via hard templating technique [109]. They revealed that increase in the Ni/Mo ratio has significantly lowered the temperature (250 °C) for the α-phase to β-NiMoO4 phase transformation [119]. However, achieving a good propylene yield requires a trade-off in tuning this transformation temperature, as α-NiMoO4 phase favors higher ODHP activity while β-NiMoO4 phase is more selective to propylene. Interestingly, a catalyst with Mo/Ni of 0.4 showed propylene yield of around 16 % at 600 °C. Moreover, a soft templating technique via the use of self-assembled hybrid precursors showed prospect in achieving highly efficient NiMO-based catalysts with improved surface area for ODHP application [217]. The evolved morphology of the catalysts was highly sensitive to the nature of the template used, and the graphene-derived VOx catalyst (V-A-G) displayed 47.02 % conversion and 53.93 % propylene selectivity at 450 °C during 6 h TOS. Calcination in air led to significant exposure of the active sites.
3.3.2.4. Catalyst treatment to tune oxide-support interaction
The use of additives such as polymeric ligands or alkali metals (Na and K) as chemical treatment agent in supported oxide catalysts could modulate oxide-support interaction. This tuning approach usually results in better dispersion of the active phase or improved isolation of active sites. Consequently, overall selectivity could increase due to weaken interaction between the desired product (propylene) and the catalytic surface. Du et’al reported that surface modification with polymeric phosphate has significantly improved the thermal stability and propylene selectivity function of a nickel oxide catalyst [218]. The ligand modification weakened the surface affinity of the generated propylene molecules, thereby resulted in 2 to 3-fold increase in propylene selectivity compared to unmodified NiO catalyst. Also, Goudarzi et’al reported that addition of potassium via incipient wetness impregnation into nanostructured titanate support has improved the dispersion of molybdena species [219]. The K-modified titanate-supported catalyst, MoTNT-10 (with 10 wt% molybdena) displayed high stable ODHP performance in terms of propylene yield (from 9.3%–11.3% at 500 °C) relative to unmodified MoTNT-x catalyst, despite the loss in specific surface area that ensued during calcination.
Besides, tuning oxide-support interaction might be achieved via controlled thermal treatment of catalysts. Regulation of the temperature and gas phase environment used during calcination process can provide a handle to achieve tailored interaction between the active oxides and the support materials. This is important owing to the fact that surface enrichment and activation of active sites in oxide catalysts usually ensue at calcination stage. Additionally, during the ODHP process, desired structural transformation of the active species and modulating their synergistic role could be achieved via regulating the operating temperature and the prevailing gaseous environment [220].
3.4. Oxide surface reducibility
As discussed earlier, lattice oxygen species available at surface of oxide catalysts are majorly considered as the active sites for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reaction. However, it should be noted that the performance of the ODHP catalysts depends on how readily available these oxygen species are for direct participation in the reaction. These selective nucleophilic oxygens play the pivotal role of hydrogen abstraction from the propane molecule, and the oxide catalyst get reduced as a result. The surface composition of the reduced oxide catalyst becomes modified with the emergence of oxygen vacancies [221]. In several density function theory simulation (DFT) studies investigating the role of oxide reducibility in oxidative performance, the cost of oxygen vacancy formation is usually used as the property descriptor for the oxide surface reducibility [222].
Thus, surface oxide reducibility at typical reaction conditions is a crucial factor that controls the catalytic behavior of ODHP catalysts in terms of both conversion and propylene selectivity. Generally, oxides with higher heat of formation or higher metal-oxygen bond strength tend to display lesser surface reducibility. Metal oxides with high reducibility may be more susceptible to formation of COx products [223]. Usually, higher surface reducibility of oxides results in increased activity, however, beyond a certain degree, chances of the reaction path favoring over oxidation increases [224]. As such, optimal tuning of surface reducibility is paramount in designing ODHP catalysts with better trade-off ability between activity and selectivity to target product.
3.4.1. Strategies of tuning oxide surface reducibility
The electronic nature of lattice oxygen species may have influence on the reducibility of oxide catalysts. Lattice oxygen species that are more electron deficient (more electrophilic) are expected to display relatively lesser binding strength, and thus results in oxide catalysts with lower reduction temperature and higher surface reducibility. Such oxygens may promote oxidation of propylene molecules during ODHP [51]. This implies that appropriate modulation of the electronic property of the lattice oxygen species in oxide catalysts could have a profound impact on the oxidative activity and selectivity functions of ODHP catalysts. The presence of vital interactions between the active oxide phase and the support material could also improve surface reducibility through enhanced charge transfer. Also, the nature of the oxidants (such as O2, N2O) may significantly influence the reducibility of VOx species, producing varying concentrations of selective lattice oxygen species and nonselective peroxo species [221,225].
The strategies of tuning surface reducibility of oxide catalysts span from use of support and modulating support properties, control of the chemical environment of the lattice oxygen species in the active oxide phase, to use of efficient synthesis methods that result in improved electronic interactions among the constituents of the oxide catalysts. Noteworthy, one of the excellent reviews on tuning reducibility of oxide catalysts is the works of Puigdollers [151]. It discussed extensively the key role played by nanostructuring, formation of metal/oxide interface and doping in modulating surface reducibility of heterogeneous oxide catalysts. In supported heterogeneous catalyst, tuning of interfacial interactions is crucial and could result in significant promotive effects in structure-performance relationships [226]. Fig. 22a shows the various schemes involved in modulation of redox property of oxide catalysts. Fig. 22b depicts some strategies of tuning the surface reducibility of heterogeneous catalysts toward improved performance.
Download : Download high-res image (415KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 22. a) An illustration of the various phenomena that result in modulation of redox property of oxide catalysts. b) Some strategies of tuning the surface reducibility of heterogenous catalyst for improved performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability. The extent of tuning the property-activity functions depends on the catalyst synthesis methods coupled with the physicochemical property of the constituent metals or their precursors.
3.4.1.1. Tuning oxide surface reducibility via active phase oxide control
Nadjafi et al. investigated the role of dispersion and reducibility on the ODHP performance of silica supported sodium decavanadate (
, less than ca. 2.6 Vnm−2 monolayer coverage) synthesized via IWI method [220]. They revealed that thermal treatment under different environment of air, N2 or ODHP conditions caused varying phase transformation, resulting in significant changes on the reducibility of the catalyst. Under N2 (an inert gas), the benchmark catalysts
and
appeared to be structurally stable, whereas,
transformed to a reduced
phase (
). This transformation resulted to poor activity of the
majorly due to predominance of the
, as evidenced from their V and Na MAS NMR results coupled with Raman investigation. Notably, MAS NMR is an effective spectroscopic technique for probing the surface structure of active phases [227]. Subsequently, the high oxidative activity of the catalyst was restored with time on stream (3 h) due to formation of
and
phases and their redistribution on the
support. The formation of the metastable
was unexpected due to its usual transformation to the
phase at temperatures quite below that of typical onset ODHP temperature [228]. All the phases had different crystal structures and unique coordination chemistry for the vanadium species (Fig. 23a). The redox cycle of the
is depicted on Fig. 23b. In addition, the
catalyst showed good ODHP activity with remarkable propylene selectivity (Fig. 23c). This clearly shows that tuning the coordination environment of the metal in the active oxide phase (V in this case) may significantly modify the surface reducibility.
Download : Download high-res image (622KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 23. a). Representation of the crystal structures and coordination environments of V in
species. b) Redox cycle of
catalyst where it losses activity due to formation of
(a reduced form of
. It subsequently regained its high activity due to formation of large crystallites of
redispersed on
support. c) ODHP catalytic performance of
with the other benchmark catalysts (10 min TOS, 450 °C, C3H8/air = 2:5, WHSV =6.8 h−1) [220].
Recently, Kharlamova et al. investigated the modulation of the surface reducibility of a monolayer MgVOx/Al2O3 catalyst synthesized IWI for ODHP [178]. The MgVOx/Al2O3 catalyst with varying Mg/V ratios was benchmarked with an undoped VOx/Al2O3, and detailed UV–vis and Raman spectroscopy confirmed the formation of 2D VOx and MgVOx species on the alumina support. The authors revealed that incorporation of Mg into the active oxide phase has significantly modified the coordination environment of the vanadium (V5+) species and the binding strength of the VO bonds. This influenced the redox property of the catalysts, with higher degree of reduction observed at higher Mg/V ratios (0–4) as revealed from their TPR results. It should be noted that coordination structure of the metal in the active phase (vanadium in this case) has profound impact on olefin selectivity in ODH process (Fig. 24) [229]. Obviously, the activity of the modified catalysts decreased, however, it was compensated with higher propylene selectivity. At 0.8 Mg/V ratio, double-fold propylene yield was recorded (4.7 %), which decreased slightly at higher ratios. A similar observation was found with incorporation of ceria into active oxide phase of MnOx/Nb2O5-x catalyst for propane oxidation [230], indicating that control of the active phase can be utilized to tune surface reducibility. Moreover, Jalowiecki-Duhamel et al. revealed that incorporation of Ce into CeNiXOY mixed oxide has regulated the reducibility of the Ni2+ cations, inhibiting their complete and irreversible reduction [46]. This significantly improved their ODHP performance, especially after treatment of the catalyst under H2 atmosphere, due to absence of Ni species that are not re-oxidizable which could favor cracking reaction.
Download : Download high-res image (198KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 24. Illustration of the influence of coordination chemistry of V in vanadium-based catalysts on selectivity to olefins and oxygenated product. [24,229].
Furthermore, Sandupatla et al. investigated the effect of CO2 on the ODHP performance of alumina-supported vanadia catalysts modified with Cr, Mo, and W [231]. They revealed that the presence of CO2 has not improved the rate of propylene formation on Cr-modified catalysts. The Cr-modified catalysts displayed much lower reduction temperature compared to the others, and it is only partially re-oxidized in CO2 stream as evident form their H2-TPR. Wang et al. reported that use of ZIF-8 as synthesis template has prospects in yielding Co3O4 nanoparticles with highly stable low-temperature ODHP performance [124]. The incorporation of the Co species was via impregnation technique, and the morphology and reducibility of the Co3O4 catalyst changed with variation in the pyrolysis temperature.
3.4.1.2. Tuning oxide surface reducibility via support modulation
Obviously, modulation of support properties can be achieved via systematic doping with appropriate metals (such as noble metals), support hybridization, or thermal or chemical treatment of support materials. Besides, synthesis method is another important handle that could offer effective tuning of surface oxide reducibility. Different methods such as hydrothermal synthesis [232] and flame spray pyrolysis (FSP) [233] do offer advantage of dimensionality, morphology and size control in synthesis of oxide catalysts, and consequently tuning of surface reducibility of these oxides. The difference in dimensionality and morphology can results in differences in the local coordination chemistry of the oxides. Obviously, lattice oxygen species located at low-coordinated sites (such as steps and corners) on the surface of oxides are relatively different in reactivity to those in the bulk [234]. An efficient synthesis method could be used to increase the density of the undercoordinated oxygen species and thereby fine tuning the surface reducibility of the resulting oxide catalysts. The luxury offered by all these strategies in fine tuning surface reducibility hold great prospect in improving the low-temperature performance (LT-performance) of catalysts used in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene.
Moreover, Liu revealed that tuning the morphology of CeO2 nanocrystal support has influenced the reduction behavior of NbOx catalyst for ODHP [207]. Depending on the morphology of the support, different exposed crystallography facets may dominate, thereby resulting in varying interactions of the active oxide phase with the support [158,165]. Accordingly, they found that that ceria rods (r-CeO2, mainly enclosed with {110} & {100} facets) resulted in more reducibility compared to ceria cubes (enclosed with {110} & {100} facets), all calcined at 500 °C. However, calcination of the r-CeO2 at 700 °C (r-CeO2−700) suppressed its surface reducibility. Besides, increase in the Nb loading up to 5.1Nb/nm2 has significantly lowered the reduction temperatures of the NbOx/r-CeO2−700 catalysts. Additionally, support hybridization in VOX/γ-Al2O3-ZrO2 [204] and support doping in VOX/Ce-Al2O3 [201] catalysts were found to suppressed the oxide-support interactions. Consequently, the surface reducibility of the VOX phases for ODH of ethane became tuned. These works demonstrate the prospect of support modulation in designing low-temperature ODHP catalysts.
4. Toward rational design of novel ODHP catalysts
In this section, highlight related to conventional and accelerated catalyst discovery will be made briefly. The conventional catalyst discovery is basically the traditional try-and-error experiments used in screening and optimization of catalysts for various applications. For the accelerated catalyst discovery, it involves computational methodologies that are either data-driven, theory-driven or a hybrid of the two in designing catalysts with optimal properties and performances. However, due to limitation of reported literatures on the accelerated catalyst discovery in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), only a general discussion on the topic will be provided. Obviously, the accelerated catalyst discovery is highly prospective in facilitating the design and development of catalytic systems. As such, there is an urgent need to deploy such techniques in studies for oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes (ethane and propane).
4.1. Conventional approach
Conventionally, discovery of catalysts for industrial applications usually stem from longtime experimentation by several researchers. Upon discovery of potential ones, large scale screening experiments are employed to optimize their compositional and structural properties. However, the space for the discovery and optimization of catalysts is wide, and catalytic performance depends hugely on the complex interactions among catalytic properties and operating conditions [235]. The most optimal catalyst could hardly be discovered through the trial-and-error approach. Thus, it is not surprising that industrially-viable catalysts with high stable performances are yet to be discovered for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene and oxidative coupling of methane (OCM). Besides, serendipity has been a fortune to scientific discovery and similarly in discovery of materials for catalytic applications.
Most recently, hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) [54] was serendipitously found to be highly active and selective for ODHP [236]: opening a new horizon in exploration and screening of other potential B-containing catalysts for the process. Besides, V-Mg-O catalysts have also shown great potential in improving the ODHP process catalytically. A large number of catalyst have been reported for ODHP, nonetheless, their catalytic performances in terms of yield to propylene has remained below an economically viable level. As such, there should be a paradigm shift in the ODHP catalyst exploration to involve robust accelerated discovery techniques to expedite the search and optimization process.
4.2. Accelerated catalyst discovery
Accelerated discovery of novel catalysts through rational design and tuning of catalytic materials provides an important opportunity in dramatic improvement of many heterogeneous processes in terms of their performance and stability. The emergence of high-performance computing capability and efficient computational science are in the forefront in making paradigm shift in catalyst discovery possible. Notably, the accelerated catalyst discovery involves virtual design of the catalyst prior to the synthesis stage through screening of catalyst datasets or quantum mechanical calculations. The accelerated catalyst discovery can be classified into the following:
I
Data-driven approach
II
Theory-driven approach
III
Hybrid approach
In the data-driven approach, machine learning (ML) is the lead technique in computational catalyst screening that guides in rational design of new catalysts. The ML involves use of data generated through experimentation (or from literature) coupled with descriptive features to gain prediction of future catalytic performance. The descriptive features span from compositions and structures of catalysts, synthesis parameters, and operating conditions. The quality of information embedded in the dataset strongly affects the derived descriptor–property relationships. In recent times, outstanding articles that provide guide toward excellent grasp of the data-driven catalyst design via ML are on the increase [[237], [238], [239]]. In literature, genetic algorithm (GA) [240], artificial neural networks (ANN) [241] and GA-tuned ANN [242] for discovery of catalysts used in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) have been reported. Interestingly, McCullough et al. have critically discussed these ML studies for screening and optimization of catalysts for ODHP application [243]. Besides, other techniques such as clustering algorithm (CA) [244] and principal component analysis (PCA) that require no specification of target property have been employed to reveal patterns and trends in datasets toward catalyst design.
The theory-driven approach involves use of quantum mechanical calculation (ab initio or DFT) that allow for molecular-level optimization of both composition and structure of catalysts prior to synthesis, and offer the testing of the intrinsic catalytic behavior of the catalysts over a wide spectrum of scenarios. The optimization could involve various surface facets (terminations) and unique adsorption sites, and the result provides rational guide in design and development of catalysts with improved performance. As more complementary operando characterization methods are being developed recently, probing of the nature of interactions of product intermediates with active centers has never being more efficient [74]. Such interactions could be examined effectively via computation of adsorption energies involved [245]. Consequently, the insights gain through in situ characterizations coupled with computational investigations have offered vintage advantage in revealing more realistic structure-activity relationships of catalysts, and establishment of more precise reaction mechanisms. Obviously, the prospect of predicting the catalytic properties of active sites via robust quantum mechanical computations (DFT) is mounting, especially with more emerging outlines on breaking scaling relationships [246]. Moreover, instead of the electronic or structural reactivity descriptors conventionally being used, hybrid descriptors are more utilized in recent times for more accurate predictions. Additionally, highly specific mechanistic details regarding process of catalyst deactivation are now better understood.
A hybrid approach in rational catalyst design manifests when ML is integrated with high-throughput (HT) data generation through experimental or quantum mechanical (QM) computational catalysis. Interestingly, thousands of prospective catalysts could be screened through the framework incorporating ML with HT experimentation (ML-HTE) or HT computation (ML-HTC). Notably, there are many articles on the concept of ML-HT for rational catalyst design [235,238,243,247,248]. Besides, deep insight into reaction mechanisms could be gained via use of frameworks that integrate QM calculations with microkinetics and continuum model for mass transport [249]. It should be noted that Python language has enabled development of algorithms for high-throughput (HT) computation of target properties, and consequent deployment of ML algorithms to determine property-performance relationships that could aid design of novel catalysts. Atomic Simulation Environment (ASE) is a free platform that provides Python interface to various calculation codes, allows building, control, running, visualization and analysis of atomistic calculations.
Furthermore, availability of open web-based databases such as Materials Project (MP) (for electronic and structural information about materials) [250] and NIST JANAF (thermochemical database) [251], Scikit-learn library (ML in Python) [252], CatApp (web app for catalyst design) [253] are hugely augmenting accelerated discovery and design of materials for catalytic applications and other fields. Obviously, accelerated catalyst discovery is a highly prospective alternative in discovering new materials with improved performances. It is important to have a substantial number of future studies exploring the potential of all these techniques in better understanding of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), especially in terms of catalyst design and development. Moreover, the reaction mechanism and deactivation mechanism on various catalysts could be better understood.
5. Conclusion remarks and outlooks
Design and development of more efficient catalysts is urgently required in order to increase the economic viability of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as a highly prospective technology for propylene production. Diverse research efforts in understanding the unique nature of the active sites, optimization of composition and structure of potential catalysts, probing of reaction mechanisms, and influence of various oxidants are on progress. Systematic tuning of crucial catalytic properties such as oxygen vacancy, reducibility, oxide-support interaction, acidity and basicity is imperative to provide effective trade-off in the activity/selectivity functions of ODHP catalysts to realize significant improvement in stable propylene yield. Obviously, studies focused on investigation of mass and heat transfer limitations in ODHP catalysts are very rare, and such studies could provide other alternative to improve the catalytic performance. Surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) protocol can offer high degree of control in the grafting and isolation of active sites, and its potential in this regard should be explored extensively in ODHP application. Accelerated catalyst discovery through high-throughput experimentation and computation holds huge potential in the design and development of novel catalysts. Thus, it is crucial to deploy the accelerated catalyst discovery techniques coupled with advanced operando spectroscopy to expedite catalyst screening for ODHP application. The following are outlines on the possible future research directions in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP):
1
The nature of active sites of the various ODHP catalysts should be further explored effectively through systematic experiments coupled with detailed surface analysis and DFT simulation.
2
Rational design and development of catalysts through accelerated catalyst discovery is an important area that urgently needs to be explored for ODHP application.
3
Development of advanced reactor concepts such as chemical looping, alternative feed supply, dual reactor concept and layered-loading of catalysts could help towards improvement of the yield and stability of the ODHP process.
4
The ODHP mechanism on various catalytic systems requires further systematic investigation.
5
More investigations on catalyst deactivation and its mechanism could provide further understanding on other necessary requirements needed in the design of catalysts that could potentially improve ODHP.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors report no declarations of interest.
Acknowledgements
The author(s) would like to acknowledge the support provided by the Deanship of Scientific Research (DSR) at King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM) for funding this work through project No. DF191028.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
