I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


In Other Journals


ANIMAL BEHAVIOR
Individuality in avian predators
Yuen Yiu
The hunting preferences of the barn owl (shown here) and other birds are an evolutionary adaptation to how their prey vary their survival strategies.
PHOTO: GUY EDWARDES/MINDEN PICTURES
In an ergodic system, the average behavior of an individual over time resembles the average behavior of many individuals at a single time. The ergodicity of a system, or the lack thereof, is important for understanding any large-scale phenomenon such as the stock market or the migratory patterns of species. Vilk et al. tracked a total of 70 birds, all avian predators, including barn owls, black-winged kites, and common kestrels, and found that they exhibited ergodic behaviors when cruising over long distances but nonergodic behaviors when foraging over short distances. The authors believe that the nonergodic hunting preferences of the individual birds are an evolutionary adaptation to how their prey vary their survival strategies.
Phys. Rev. X 12, 031005 (2022).
SIGN UP FOR THE SCIENCEADVISER NEWSLETTER
The latest news, commentary, and research, free to your inbox daily
SIGN UP
NANOMATERIALS
Reusing solvent in nanoparticle synthesis
Phil Szuromi
Colloidal synthesis of metal nanoparticles can create tighter size distributions and potentially greater control of reactivity in heterogeneous catalysis than conventional methods such as wet impregnation. However, colloidal synthesis is a costly alternative because solvents and surfactants are normally used only once. Wrasman et al. added an antisolvent mixture of 2-propanol and ethanol to precipitate the nanoparticles after colloidal synthesis and then recovered the hydrocarbon solvent and unused surfactant through distillation. Synthesis of metal nanoparticles such palladium and silver, and alloys such as platinum-tin, could be repeated up to 10 times with the recovered materials while maintaining the initial size distributions. These nanoparticles delivered highly reproducible results in reactions such as propane dehydrogenation and may offer a cost-competitive alternative as catalysts.
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 144, 11646 (2022).
PLANT SCIENCE
Legacies of drought
Pamela J. Hines
Drought affects aboveground plants, as well as their belowground associated microbial and fungal communities, to influence plant growth. Lozano et al. show that soil microbial communities carry the effects of previous drought even into water-replete situations. A variety of grassland species, including graminoids, forbs, and legumes, were grown in soil that had previously hosted plants in drought or well-watered conditions. Root morphology showed changes characteristic of water scarcity when plants were grown in soil that had previously experienced drought even though the plants themselves had not. Soil that has experienced drought may be deficient in mycorrhizal fungal mutualists. As a result, plants growing in drought soil may grow thicker roots to encourage the establishment of mutualistic associations from depleted soil.
New Phytol. 10.1111/nph.18327 (2022).
ENVIRONMENT
Managing lake water quality
Caroline Ash
Large bodies of freshwater are under increasing threat from climate change and human activities. The clear waters of Lake Geneva risk eutrophication and declining deepwater oxygen because of organic matter and phosphorus inputs that promote algal growth. Deyle et al. applied machine learning to time-series data for Lake Geneva to gain a more precise understanding of the variables affecting water quality. There have been efforts to reduce phosphorus inputs, but success has been limited, in part because increasing ambient temperature also promotes algal growth. Interdependencies among biogeochemical variables were included in a machine-learning approach coupled with conventional models for predicting deep lakedissolved oxygen levels. The combined approach offers more nuanced guidance for lake water quality management.
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 119, e21024661 (2022).
STEM WORKFORCE
Women choosing greener pastures
Melissa McCartney
Women faculty remain under-represented in chemistry because of a lack of applicants. Howe et al. surveyed 130 women and found that themes of overwork, unrealistic expectations, and an emphasis on research over teaching and mentoring were the underlying reasons that women looked elsewhere for employment. Further analysis revealed that women felt unsupported during graduate school and extrapolated this lack of support to faculty positions. This suggests that graduate-level experiences inform interests and career goals, and that systemic changes for increasing the diversity of faculty need to be made at the graduate level. Collectively, the results show that diversifying faculty positions is much more than simply opening a position. Instead, it requires policy changes that explicitly value women and their ideals.
JACS Au. 2, 1443 (2022).
PANCREATIC CANCER
Exercise boosts tumor immunity
Priscilla N. Kelly
Exercise has many positive effects on the body, including improved blood circulation, heart strengthening, and weight control. Kurz et al. report that aerobic exercise is also associated with reduced tumor growth in models of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. They showed that exercise enhanced the survival of a type of immune cell called CD8+ T lymphocytes, which are known for their ability to kill tumors. Greater numbers of CD8+ T cells capable of infiltrating tumors were found to accumulate as a result of an exercise regimen. The anti-tumor effects were mediated through the interleukin-15 (IL-15) axis, and pharmacological targeting of the IL-15/IL-15Rα pathway slowed tumor growth, particularly when combined with immunotherapy and chemotherapy treatments.
Cancer Cell 40, 720 (2022).
STEM PUBLISHING
Gender inequality
Ekeoma Uzogara
Do inequities in womens editorships associate with an underrepresentation of women authors? Last et al. examined the association between womens editorship and womens authorship across randomly selected journals in infectious diseases spanning each impact factor quartile. Only 33% of infectious disease journals editors-in-chief were found to be women. While controlling for journal impact factor, analysis of over 10,000 citable infectious diseases articles found that although nearly 50% of first authors were women, only 35% of last authors were women. Moreover, the presence of more women editors was associated with more women first authors, as well as more women last authors.
Lancet Infect. Dis. 10.1016/S1473-3099(22)00367-X (2022).


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 