<DOCUMENT>
In Situ XAS/SAXS Study of Al2O3-Coated PtGa Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation

Abstract
The effects of applying an alumina (Al2O3) coating by atomic layer deposition, with a thickness of about ∼1 nm, on two PtGa catalysts (PtGa/MgAl2O4 and Pt/MgGaAlO) were explored for the propane dehydrogenation reaction (PDH). The combined application of small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was employed on the samples to gain insight into the effect of this coating on catalyst stability. The coating restricted the mobility of surface metal nanoparticles, thereby preventing sintering of the catalyst. On the PtGa/MgAl2O4 catalyst, the presence of the coating hindered the alloy formation between Pt and Ga, while it did not negatively affect the formation of an alloy for the Pt/MgGaAlO catalyst as the Ga is delivered from the support. The SAXS and XAS findings were reflected in the PDH activity tests. The alumina-coated PtGa/MgAl2O4 performed worse than its uncoated counterpart due to the limited alloy formation in the presence of the coating. The coated and uncoated Pt/MgGaAlO catalysts were tested for PDH after 1, 5, and 10 H2/O2 redox cycles to see the effect of the coating on activity and stability. In general, the coating reduces the total amount of carbon formation, and the rate of deactivation for the coated sample is slower than for the uncoated counterpart. A higher thickness of coating led to reduced activity due to increased blockage of active sites but at the same time drastically reduced total carbon formation at similar conversions. The coated and uncoated Pt/MgGaAlO samples were then subjected to another 30 redox cycles (40 in total) and subsequently examined with HAADF STEM. Through particle size distribution of STEM images, it is determined that the coating reduced the extent of sintering of the sample. The direct correlation between increased coating thickness and lower extent of sintering of the surface metal nanoparticles was confirmed.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:PDH Pt-LIII edge supported metal catalyst Pt−Ga alloy alumina coating atomic layer deposition small angle X-ray scattering

1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Platinum (Pt) exhibits excellent catalytic properties for a wide variety of applications such as in fuel cells, petroleum refining, hydrogen production, organic synthesis, and automobile exhaust gas treatment. (1−6) An important process which also requires its use is the propane dehydrogenation reaction (PDH) leading to the formation of propylene. (7−10) Propylene forms a crucial building block for a number of commodity chemicals such as propylene oxide, polypropylene, acrylonitrile, and acrylic acid. The current supply of propylene is foreseen to fall short of the ever rising demands in the future, (8) due to which there is a growing interest in on-purpose propylene production through PDH. However, there are a number of limitations associated with this process, one of which is thermodynamic: the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, so that relatively high temperatures are required for high yields of propylene. (7,11) These reaction conditions favor undesired cracking reactions to lighter hydrocarbons, leading to rapid coke formation and lower propylene yields. (12) Typically, elimination of this coke from the catalyst surface is achieved by means of a regeneration step, where oxygen is employed to burn off this carbon. Then again, multiple repetitions of these reaction/regeneration steps inevitably lead to sintering of the catalyst and subsequently to loss in activity toward PDH. (8,13,14)
A lot of research has gone into eliminating or suppressing these negative effects. One of the most popular methods employed is the addition of a promoter such as Sn, (12,15) Ga, (16−18) In, (19) Cu, (20) etc. Addition of such a promoter leads to the formation of nanoalloys that are typically more stable as far as sintering is concerned and suppress coke formation. They are also more selective toward the formation of the desired product propylene, which leads to higher yields. The promoter can be added on the support surface next to the active Pt, e.g., by wet impregnation. Alternatively, a different synthesis method has been investigated, where the promoter is incorporated into the support (hydrotalcite) framework (17,19) onto which Pt is wet-impregnated. In both cases, the active alloy is obtained after activation, which typically consists of a reduction treatment.
Another approach to overcome the thermodynamic and equilibrium limitations is by the addition of an oxidant such as oxygen, (21) carbon dioxide, (7,11,22) or nitrous oxide (23) to the feed, which would then lead to an oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Cofeeding of oxygen is the most widely applied method among the different oxidants explored for ODH as it is exothermic, favors low temperature reactions, and is thus thermodynamically favorable. However, there is a drawback as oxygen can cause deep oxidation of propane and propylene to COx, which inevitably leads to the loss of selectivity and propylene yield. (7)
A third option, which has been recently investigated for this reaction for a monometallic Pt catalyst, (24,25) is the possibility of adding a coating on the catalysts, which can stabilize the nanoparticles against sintering. This method has also been successfully applied for other reactions such as SiO2-coated Au/TiO2 catalysts for CO oxidation, (26) alumina-coated Pd catalysts for hydrogenation of 1,3 butadiene, (27) atomic layer deposition (ALD)-based Al2O3-coated Pd-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, (28) MgO-coated Ni catalysts for reforming of methane, (29) and others. (30,31) The results hold promise and indicate it is an option that can be investigated for PDH. So far, this coating procedure has been applied to monometallic catalyst systems and not yet for a bimetallic catalyst.
In this work, two of the above-mentioned approaches are combined for enhanced PDH performance: promoter and coating. A Pt-based catalyst is used with a Ga promoter. Prior research showed numerous advantages of applying Ga as a promoter and provided a detailed analysis of the mechanism by which alloy formation takes place. (16,17) In addition, these catalysts are coated with alumina by means of a chemical vapor deposition technique, atomic layer deposition (ALD), a powerful tool for controlled modification of solid surfaces. (32) Prior to the coating treatment, the catalysts are reduced under a H2 atmosphere to form the PtGa bimetallic alloy nanoparticles (NPs). Subsequent to the coating, a thermal treatment step under Ar atmosphere is employed to crack the coating layer and make the catalyst (active sites) accessible to the gas feed. It has been demonstrated that such a thermal treatment can increase the overcoating layer porosity (33) by crack formation. (34,35) The porous and inert coating keeps the alloy NPs as small isolated units while providing gas access through canals, thereby preventing surface nanoparticle sintering and loss of active sites from carbon blockage. (28,36)
Several questions need to be answered about the workability of such a coating for bimetallic NPs. First is to confirm whether the active sites remain accessible to the reactants. Second would be to determine if there are any interactions between the catalyst and the coating layer. A third aspect is if and how the activity toward propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is altered. Fourth is to see the effect of applying such a coating on the alloy formation and finally to verify if this coating indeed prevents coke formation and sintering of the catalyst.
To examine the behavior of coated versus uncoated PtGa, a combined study of in situ small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was undertaken. XAS can yield detailed structural and electronic information on the local environment of both elements Pt and Ga under the alumina coating, even for nanosized particles (<2 nm). SAXS can track changes to the particle sizes during in situ treatments. However, when the nanoparticles are supported, SAXS can no longer monitor their variation in size as the support material itself will also scatter in the small angle region. (37) This hurdle can be circumvented by means of anomalous SAXS (ASAXS), making use of tuned X-ray energies. (38,39) The changes of the atomic form factors with energy around elemental absorption edges can be used to extract pure elemental scattering signals from SAXS curves, recorded at different X-ray energies on the same sample. (39) In situ experiments were performed during temperature-programmed reduction and oxidation to assess the effect on alloy and coating, as well as during five H2/O2 redox cycles to mimic sintering.
Following extensive H2/O2 redox cycling, PDH experiments were performed, in order to follow the deactivation trends. In combination with the in situ SAXS/XAS and STEM detailed catalyst characterization, this work brings insight into the benefits/drawbacks of applying a coating on the surface of a supported bimetallic catalyst (PtGa) for the propane dehydrogenation reaction. This will help to identify ideal process parameters, pertaining to the reaction and application of coating, to improve efficiency.
2. Experimental Section
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Catalyst Preparation
Two different supports are chosen: a MgAl2O4 spinel type support and a hydrotalcite-like support, where Ga is incorporated in light of pure alloy phase formation with Pt. (17,18) Pt is then wet-impregnated onto these supports, either alone on the hydrotalcite or coimpregnated with Ga on the spinel.
2.1.1. Support Preparation
The support MgAl2O4 (spinel) was prepared by coprecipitation from an aqueous solution of Mg(NO3)2·6H2O (99%, Sigma-Aldrich) and Al(NO3)3·9H2O (98.5%, Sigma-Aldrich) (molar ratio Mg/Al = 1/2). NH4OH (ACS reagent, 28.0–30% NH3 basis) was used as the precipitating agent in order to maintain a pH of 10 at 333 K. The precipitate was then dried at 393 K for 12 h and calcined in air at 893 K for 6 h. (40)
Ga-incorporated MgGaAlO hydrotalcite (HT) material with 1 wt % Ga was prepared according to the procedure described in the work by Sun et al., (18) by coprecipitation from an aqueous solution of Mg (Sigma-Aldrich, 98–102), Al (Sigma-Aldrich, 98.5), and Ga (Sigma-Aldrich, 99.99%) nitrates mixed with a 1.1 mol/L NaOH (Sigma-Aldrich, > 98%) solution. This solution was then aged for 24 h at room temperature subsequent to which it was dried at 393 K overnight in air and calcined in air at 973 K (2 K/min heating rate) for 10 h to obtain the final support.
2.1.2. Catalyst Preparation
Pt (3 wt %) was deposited onto both supports, MgAl2O4 and MgGaAlO, by incipient wetness impregnation. For the MgAl2O4 support, Ga was equally deposited by impregnation with a loading chosen such that the atomic ratio between Pt and Ga is 3:1. The latter ratio is required for Pt-based catalysts as the dehydrogenation typically takes place on the Pt sites, while the promoter helps the desorption of the propylene from the surface. (12,19,41,42) The samples were dried for 2 h at 393 K and calcined in air at 893 K for 5 h, yielding the as-prepared, uncoated samples: PtGa/MgAl2O4 (wet-impregnated sample, WI) and Pt/MgGaAlO (incorporated sample, INC).
A PtGa/MgAl2O4 catalyst with higher Ga loading was prepared to facilitate detection of the effect of multiple H2/O2 redox cycles on the alloy composition by means of diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy with CO (CO-DRIFTS) experiments. This catalyst was prepared with a Pt loading of 2.2 and 0.8 wt % of Ga, yielding an atomic ratio between Pt and Ga of 1:1. The preparation procedure of this catalyst was exactly the same as for the WI sample above.
In addition, a monometallic Pt/MgAl2O4 catalyst was prepared to serve as a reference.
2.1.3. Alumina-Coating Procedure
Part of the two samples, PtGa/MgAl2O4 and Pt/MgGaAlO, was coated with a layer of alumina by means of atomic layer deposition (ALD) in a high vacuum pump type ALD system. The precursor for this application was trimethylaluminum (TMA) with water as the reactant and with exposure times of 30 s each. The deposition temperature was 423 K while the pressure was 5 × 10–3 mbar. The thickness of the coating depends on the number of cycles of TMA/H2O pulses that are applied on the sample. Previous work (36,43) has shown that 10 cycles of pulses correspond to about ∼1 nm of coating thickness. In order to avoid hindrance of alloy formation by the coating, e.g., by physically separating the individual Pt and Ga particles, the two samples were first reduced under a H2 atmosphere in order to form a PtGa alloy. These samples were then taken from the reduction setup to the ALD setup in order to apply the alumina coating. During this transfer the sample was exposed to atmosphere at room temperature, which could lead to partial oxidation of the sample. The samples were then coated with 10 cycles of ALD coating, hence a layer thickness of ∼1 nm, and will henceforth be represented as 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4 and 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO in this work. Once the coating was applied, the samples were annealed under inert atmosphere (Ar) for 1.5 h at 923 K to induce cracks in the overlayer and ensure accessibility to the active sites. This brings the coated catalysts to their as-prepared state. The entire scheme of catalyst preparation is shown in the Supporting Information Figure S1. A monometallic Pt/MgAl2O4 sample with a 1 nm coating was prepared along with the PtGa samples (prepared for activity tests). In addition, two samples were prepared with 40 cycles of coating (∼4 nm: 40Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4 and 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO), which were mainly utilized for activity tests (PDH).
2.2. Catalyst Characterization
N2 adsorption at 77 K using a five-point BET method (Tristar micromeritics) was performed after degassing the sample at 393 K for 3 h to determine the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area of the as-prepared samples. Dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM DF) was used to obtain images to perform a particle size distribution analysis. The samples were deposited onto a lacey carbon film on a copper grid support. The instrument used for these measurements was a JEOL JEM-2200FS, Cs-corrected microscope operated at 200 kV, which was equipped with a Schottky-type field-emission gun (FEG) and EDX JEOL JED-2300D. SEM-EDX measurements were obtained in a SEM JEOL JSM 5400 equipped with an INCA x-act extension (Oxford Instruments) to check the composition of the supports (MgAl2O4, MgGaAlO). Inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES, iCAP 7400 instrument from Thermo Scientific) was employed to determine the bulk compositions of the catalysts. Mineralization of the samples was achieved by peroxide fusion.
CO-DRIFTS (Tensor 27, Bruker, with MCT detector) experiments were performed to determine the formation of a PtGa alloy and the evolution of the alloy with increasing number of H2/O2 redox cycles. A PtGa/MgAl2O4 catalyst was first subjected to multiple H2/O2 redox cycles (1, 5, and 10) at 873 K, subsequent to which the sample was collected and mixed with KBr (inert material for infrared measurements) in a material/KBr ratio of 1/20 in order to ensure good signal-to-noise. This sample was then transferred to the in situ DRIFTS cell, which is mounted in a Selector accessory, and evacuated. The redox cycles were not performed in the DRIFTS cell due to temperature limitations of the cell. A flow of 20% H2/He was then passed over the sample while the temperature was increased to 723 K and held there for 30 min in order to regain the alloy that may have decomposed from exposure to atmosphere during the process of mixing with KBr. This was followed by a cool down to room temperature under 20% H2/He, after which the gas flow was switched to He. A background spectrum measurement was taken after which 1% CO/He was sent onto the sample for 1 h. A set of 100 scans was recorded subsequent to the CO exposure, and the data were averaged to get a good quality spectrum. All measurements were performed in absorbance mode between 400 and 4000 cm–1 with a resolution of 2 cm–1. Data analysis was performed with the OPUS 7.2 software (Bruker).
Synchrotron-based in situ XAS and SAXS experiments were conducted at the DUBBLE beamline (44) of the ESRF synchrotron (6GeV, current 160–200 mA, Grenoble, France). Measurements were performed in transmission mode at the Pt-LIII edge (11 564 eV), and in parallel ASAXS measurements were collected by means of a Pilatus detector. The sample-to-detector distance was maintained at 2.180 m to cover a desired Q-range from 1.8 to 4.1 nm–1. Simultaneous collection of the XAS data was undertaken by means of a photodiode placed at the position of the SAXS detector beam stopper. The latter type of detector typically limits XAS acquisition to the XANES energy range due to the low signal-to-noise ratio of diode detectors, with lower data quality at high energies (EXAFS region). (44,45)
A small amount of as-prepared material (∼4 mg) was inserted into a 1.5 mm quartz capillary reactor and fixed with quartz wool plugs. The capillary reactor was mounted in a frame connected to gas feed lines through Swagelok fittings. The DUBBLE gas rig system was employed to regulate gas flows through the capillary. (46) Optics alignment and energy referencing were performed using a Pt foil.
A set of in situ experiments were conducted on each catalyst, as represented in Figure 1. The experiments were performed as follows in the same sequence: 1. H2-TPR with 5% H2/He (5 mL/min) at 10 K/min up to 923 K to reduce the catalyst and induce subsequent alloy formation. 2. CO2-TPO with a flow rate of 2 mL/min CO2 diluted with 3 mL/min He, at 10 K/min up to 923 K. 3. Following another H2-TPR, isothermal O2/H2 redox cycles at 923 K with periodic switching of the gas between O2 and H2 ending with a H2 reduction step, with each gas flow lasting 20 min and a total of five cycles measured (300 min) to follow the effect on the alloy and to see the particle growth/sintering. The gas flows used for the oxidation step were 2 mL/min of 20% O2/He mixed with 3 mL/min He, while for the reduction step it was 5 mL/min of 5% H2/He. An external heat gun was employed to achieve the desired temperatures, and the total flow was maintained at 5 mL/min. XANES measurements were performed during all in situ measurements, while at room temperature, upon conclusion of each treatment, EXAFS measurements were collected.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Experimental scheme employed for in situ XAS/ASAXS measurements.
To monitor the changes occurring to the PtGa alloy under variable conditions, i.e., during H2-TPR (to form the PtGa alloy), CO2-TPO (to segregate the alloy), and H2/O2 redox cycling (five cycles to sinter the nanoparticles (NPs)), XAS is a necessity as the targeted PtGa particles are small (<2 nm). The reasoning behind using CO2 as a gas for oxidation (CO2-TPO) is that it will oxidize only the Ga present in the sample and not the Pt. (47,48)
In addition to the aforementioned experiments, XAS measurements were performed at room temperature for reference samples Pt foil and PtO2, in order to obtain a standard measurement for fingerprint comparison of the data and for the determination of the amplitude reduction factor (S02) for the EXAFS fitting.
The EXAFS fitting results were obtained using the VIPER program, (49) and error bars were estimated with k1/k3 weighted fittings. Fitting of the EXAFS data was performed in R-space, in a range from 1.20 to 3.40 Å using a Kaiser–Bessel window. Either 1 or 2 shells were used for fitting of the data.
At room temperature, a 2D SAXS image was collected at 11 400 and 11 560 eV for 60 s to get good quality data. Then, by means of a trigger program, SAXS measurements (60 s) were taken throughout the temperature-programmed experiments at 11 400 eV at the start of each in situ XANES measurement to help track the changes occurring to the sample.
All in situ measurements were performed for the following samples: 1. MgGaAlO, 2. MgAl2O4, 3. Pt/MgGaAlO, 4. Pt/MgAl2O4, 5. PtGa/MgAl2O4, 6. 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO, and 7. 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4. SAXS measurements were also taken for an empty capillary and a standard silver behenate sample for calibration of the patterns. The collected SAXS data were treated by performing an azimuthal integration of the images by means of the software fit2d. Application of this routine leads to conversion of each of these images into a scattering profile iscat(q), whereby the intensity (measured in counts) is reported as a module of the scattering vector.
The 1D profile of the silver behenate standard sample with known scattering pattern was processed in order to find the exact sample-to-detector distance and the integration parameters (X and Y pixel coordinates of direct beam, tilt rotation, and angle of tilt). Once these were set, the azimuthal integration of all samples was carried forth.
As PtGa forms only a small part of the sample in terms of the loadings (∼3 wt %), most of the SAXS signal contribution is expected to come from the supports, MgAl2O4 and MgGaAlO. These signals hence form a background basis, which along with the empty cell contribution was subtracted from the patterns of the supported samples to get the true 1D scattering profiles for PtGa. In order to get average nanoparticle size values, the patterns were modeled with SASfit, under the fitting assumption of spherical particles and a monodispersed sample.
2.3. Catalytic Activity Measurements
Catalytic activity and stability tests were performed at 873 K and 121.3 kPa in a quartz fixed reactor with an internal diameter of 7.5 mm that was housed inside an electric furnace. A blank reactor was also tested under reaction conditions so as to obtain the catalytic activity by subtraction of thermal and/or reactor effects that might take place. It was found, however, that there was no activity with a blank reactor. K-type thermocouples were used to measure the temperature of the catalyst bed and the temperature of the external wall of the reactor at the position of the catalyst bed. Gas flows were maintained by means of calibrated Bronckhorst mass flow controllers. The catalyst samples were sieved into size fractions with an average size of ∼150 μm. This was diluted with α-Al2O3 for improved heat conductivity (ratio catalyst/inert = 1/5), which was then placed in the reactor and held in position by means of a quartz wool plug.
Each coated catalyst tested was first heated under an inert atmosphere (Ar) up to 873 K, after which it was maintained under an inert atmosphere at that temperature for 1 h. The purpose of this treatment was to create cracks in the Al2O3 overlayer, so that the active sites were accessible for reaction. Subsequent to the inert treatment, all coated catalysts were reduced in situ under a 110 mL/min flow of 10% H2/Ar for 30 min, reoxidized for 10 min under a flow of 100 mL/min of 10% O2/Ar, and again reduced under a flow of 110 mL/min of 10% H2/Ar for 20 min. This single redox sequence was conducted in situ prior to performance testing to ensure their proper initial state. Similarly, the uncoated samples were subjected to the same sequence of reduction, reoxidation, and reduction.
Propane dehydrogenation reaction (PDH) was performed at 873 K and 1.2 bar pressure to check the activity. A feed flow of C3H8:H2:Ar at a ratio of 1:1:3 was maintained with a total flow rate at 200 mL/min. The reaction was performed for 2 h after which the flow was switched to Ar. This catalyst was then exposed for 10 min to a flow of 100 mL/min of 10% O2/Ar, in order to burn off the carbon formed on the surface. Hereafter, a flow of 110 mL/min of 10% H2/Ar was fed for 20 min to re-establish the reduced, active state. This cycle of exposure to oxidative and reductive atmospheres constitutes one redox cycle, simulating a regeneration step as is typically taking place in industrial processes. Each catalyst was exposed to multiple redox cycles as a means to hasten deactivation by sintering and to assess the effect of such cycles upon performance. The PDH reaction for time steps of 1 h were performed after 1, 5, and 10 redox cycles to track the deactivation with the number of redox steps. Subsequent to the PDH activity tests, the Ga-incorporated catalysts were then subjected to an extra 30 H2/O2 redox cycles at 923 K in order to cause sintering of the catalysts. These catalysts were then recovered for measurement by STEM-DF for a particle size distribution.
The gases at the outlet of the reactor were analyzed using a Trace 1300, Thermo Scientific equipped with two TCDs and one FID gas chromatograph (GC). Ar was used as the internal standard as it does not participate in the reaction. The detected CH4 is quantified, which then forms the basis for quantification of the peaks of C2, C3H8, and C3H6 recorded by the FID channel. A calibration gas mixture was used to determine the calibration factors for the different gases.
The carbon formed on the catalyst was also quantified to determine the amount deposited after a reaction step. Hereto, the outlet of the reactor was connected to a calibrated OmniStar Pfeiffer mass spectrometer (MS), in parallel to the GC. For PDH both analysis instruments were used, while for carbon quantification only the MS was employed. Amu signals of C3H8 at 29 amu, CO2 at 44 amu, CO at 28 amu, CH4 at 16 amu, C3H6 at 41 amu, C2 at 27 and 28 amu, and Ar at 40 amu were tracked. Overlapping signals in the MS were separated based on gas mixtures (C3H8, CO2, O2, H2, and CH4) with Ar, which were flown into the MS at three different partial pressures to create a calibration curve. With these and the GC data, it was possible to attain <5% mass balance deviations upon analysis of the PDH reaction data. Carbon quantification was done based on the calibration curves of CO2 and O2.
All reactions were performed in the kinetic regime, i.e., negating any effects of mass and heat transfer limitations. This was done by evaluation of the criteria of the Carberry number (50) and Weisz–Prater (51) for mass transfer (internal and external) limitations and the criteria reported by Mears (52) for heat transfer limitations.
The conversion of propane (XC3H8) was calculated as per eq 1:
(1)
where FC3H80 and FC3H8 are the inlet and outlet flow of the gas (mol s–1). The selectivity (SC3H6) toward propylene (C3H6) was calculated by eq 2:
(2)
The propane space time yield STY (mol s–1 kgPt–1, eq 3) was determined by calculating the difference between the inlet and outlet molar flow rates of propane, as measured relative to the internal standard Ar. The space time yield of propylene was determined by eq 4 (STY, molC3H6 s–1 kgPt–1):
(3)
(4)
with mPt being the mass of Pt loaded into the catalyst bed.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Catalyst Characterization—BET, EDX, and ICP
BET measurement results for the as-prepared samples are depicted in Table 1, together with the EDX values. One observation is that the BET surface area and pore volume obtained for the coated samples are lower than those for the uncoated samples. This is expected as the layer is likely to block some pore openings during its application. Another noticeable aspect is that the average pore diameter is lower for the coated catalysts. This is explained by the work of Lu et al. (28) in which they performed a similar alumina-coating scheme for a Pd-based catalyst. New smaller pores are formed as a result of structural changes in the amorphous Al2O3 overlayer caused by dehydration, (53) removal of carbon residues from the ALD process, and dewetting of the Al2O3 overlayers at the surface of the Pt NPs.
Table 1. BET Results and Compositions for the Catalystsa
  metal loading (wt %)      
catalyst Mg Al Pt Ga BET (m2/gcat) pore volume (cm3/gcat) avg pore diameter (nm)
MgAl2O4 14.6 ± 0.05 31.8 ± 0.3     119.1 0.22 7.5
PtGa/MgAl2O4 14.3 34.2 2.3 0.2 103.7 0.20 7.2
10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4         96.4 0.15 6.1
40Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4         94.6 0.14 5.9
MgGaAlO 30.5 ± 0.9 17.1 ± 0.7   2.0 ± 0.1 171.9 0.38 9.9
Pt/MgGaAlO 23.9 12.9 1.80 1.1 169.5 0.37 9.8
10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO         138.4 0.33 9.5
40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO         122.9 0.31 8.5
aBulk compositions of the supports are derived from SEM-EDX, while for the uncoated catalysts, i.e., Pt/MgGaAlO and PtGa/MgAl2O4, these follow from ICP-OES.
3.2. SAXS Results
The normalized SAXS spectra for the doubly wet-impregnated and the Ga-incorporated samples, both uncoated and coated, are shown in Figure 2 and Figure 3, respectively. The results presented here are based on ASAXS measurements at the Pt-LIII edge (11 400 and 11 560 eV), which means that the scattering profile is that of Pt NPs. By fitting the data with a model of monodisperse, spherical nanoparticles, the average Pt-related nanoparticle size on the surface of the support can be determined according to the procedure described in section 2.2. Due to compromise undertaken for incorporating a parallel application of SAXS and XAS, it was not possible to explore a larger range of q values, and therefore a monodisperse model was used for fitting the data. All fitted plots are shown in the Supporting Information (Figures S2 and S3).
Figure 2
Figure 2. Normalized SAXS data after each treatment for (a) PtGa/MgAl2O4 and (b) 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4. Five redox cycles were applied for the “after cycles” profile. These SAXS measurements were collected at room temperature.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Normalized SAXS data after each treatment for (a) Pt/MgGaAlO and (b) 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO. Five redox cycles were applied for the “after cycles” profile. These SAXS measurements were collected at room temperature.
The change for the uncoated WI sample from as-prepared to reduced state is from 2 to 2.6 nm (the values in Tables 2 and 3 depict the radius). The SAXS analysis shows us that the Pt oxide is dispersed as 2 nm particles. Upon reduction, Ga enters into Pt to form the PtGa alloy, along with Pt particles coming together, which can account for the increase in size to 2.6 nm. The coated sample has a larger initial size (2.2 nm) because there was a reduction prior to coating which could lead to some increase in the NP size. The increase to 2.4 nm after reduction is somewhat smaller than for the uncoated sample. After TPO, both uncoated and coated samples have slightly reduced in size (2.4 and 2.2 nm diameter). Assuming the NP is alloyed after the TPR step, the latter could point to Ga segregating from the PtGa alloy during CO2-TPO, which would indeed induce a slight reduction of the overall NP size of Pt upon the loss of Ga. The particle size slightly increases upon redox cycling.
Table 2. Fitting Results for PtGa/MgAl2O4 and 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4, Yielding the Average Particle Radius with a 95% Confidence Interval
treatment PtGa/MgAl2O4 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4
as-prepared 1.0 ± 0.1 nm 1.1 ± 0.1 nm
after TPR 1.3 ± 0.1 nm 1.2 ± 0.1 nm
after TPO 1.2 ± 0.1 nm 1.1 ± 0.1 nm
after five H2/O2 cycles 1.3 ± 0.1 nm 1.2 ± 0.1 nm
Table 3. Fitting Results for Pt/MgGaAlO and 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO, Yielding the Average Particle Radius with a 95% Confidence nterval
treatment Pt/MgGaAlO 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO
as-prepared 1.0 ± 0.1 nm 1.0 ± 0.1 nm
after TPR 1.2 ± 0.1 nm 1.1 ± 0.1 nm
after five H2/O2 cycles 1.2 ± 0.1 nm 1.1 ± 0.1 nm
The incorporated sample has small size particles in the as-prepared state, 2 nm, corresponding to the wet-impregnated Pt oxide particles. Upon reduction, the alloy will form with Ga from within the support, leading to an increase in NP size to 2.4 nm for the uncoated and 2.2 nm for the coated sample. Redox cycling does not change these values.
A general observation from fitting of the SAXS data after cycling is that sintering of the samples did not take place. For the WI samples, the uncoated sample has a particle size varying between 2.0 and 2.6 nm (diameter), while for the coated it lies between 2.2 and 2.4 nm. For the Ga-incorporated samples, the uncoated sample has a particle size between 2.0 and 2.4 nm, while the coated sample varies between 2.0 and 2.2 nm. The range of variation for the coated samples is lower than for the uncoated, but as the values lie within the experimental error limits this cannot be used to state conclusively that the coating stabilizes the particle size.
3.3. CO-DRIFTS
A set of CO-DRIFTS experiments were performed on the PtGa/MgAl2O4 catalyst with higher Ga loading to enhance possible changes in the composition of the PtGa alloy with increasing redox cycles. The sample was calcined and reduced prior to the DRIFTS measurements, i.e., equivalent to one redox treatment. Figure 4 shows all the recorded spectra from CO-DRIFTS.
Figure 4
Figure 4. FTIR spectra of CO adsorption on PtGa/MgAl2O4. CO adsorption was measured subsequent to 1, 5, and 10 H2/O2 redox cycles, culminating with a reduction step.
The peak position for the one redox state is located at 2068 cm–1. Increasing redox cycles for the PtGa sample lead to a shift in the position of the main peak to lower wavenumbers, which is an indicator of alloy formation between Pt and the promoter, which in this case is Ga. (54−56) The shift increases with increasing number of redox cycles, which points to an increasing Ga content in the PtGa alloy with more redox cycles which is ultimately the main takeaway from these experiments. This experiment also indicates that minimal sintering took place because, if there had been a significant change in the size of the nanoparticles, then the geometric effect would have come into play leading to the shift of the peak to higher wavenumbers. (54)
3.4. XANES Results
3.4.1. PtGa/MgAl2O4 and 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4
The XANES spectra of as-prepared samples PtGa/MgAl2O4 and 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4 show a huge difference in white line intensity; see Figure 5. The starting WL intensity and position for the coated sample are both lower, indicating a less oxidized state for Pt.
Figure 5
Figure 5. RT XANES spectra before and subsequent to every treatment (H2-TPR, CO2-TPO, H2/O2 redox cycles finishing with a H2 reduction step) for the PtGa/MgAl2O4 samples: (a) uncoated and (b) coated.
During H2-TPR, the catalysts underwent almost complete reduction (∼97%) based on linear combination fitting (LCF) between the PtO2 and Pt foil standards. At the end of the reduction, the white line (WL) position is at a higher eV energy (∼1 eV higher, 11 567.5 eV) than the Pt foil (11 566.5 eV) for both samples, while the WL intensity remains slightly higher than for Pt foil; see Figure 5 and Figure S4 in the Supporting Information. This indicates that alloy formation is taking place between the Pt and Ga, for both samples. (57,58) Comparing the WL for the “as-prepared” coated sample with the one after TPR shows that despite the reduction before coating Pt was not alloyed at the start of the TPR but was rather in a partially oxidized state. Likely, the coating and/or annealing procedure oxidized the alloy and rearranged the oxides PtOx and GaOx on the support surface. So, applying a reduction treatment before the coating process appears to be at least partially ineffective, and another reduction is required to form the alloy underneath the coating.
For both samples, the H2-TPR was followed by cool down and a CO2-TPO experiment from RT to 923 K. A partial increase in the WL intensity was observed as well as a shift in the WL position (from 11 567.5 to 11 566.5 eV) toward the position for monometallic Pt after H2-TPR (at 11 566.5 eV), indicating loss of the PtGa alloy. CO2-TPO was also performed for the monometallic Pt/MgAl2O4 catalyst, where no changes in WL intensity (1.25 normalized absorption units) and position (11 566.5 eV) were observed (Supporting Information Figure S4). Hence, CO2 is not capable of oxidizing Pt directly, and the WL increase for the two PtGa catalysts has another cause. It should be noted that the absolute increase in WL intensity for the coated (1.22 to 1.25) and uncoated (1.22 to 1.32) samples is different (values from XAS at room temperature (RT)). Upon oxidation by CO2, the WL of coated PtGa reaches the same position and intensity as that of monometallic Pt, suggesting a mere return from alloyed to metallic state due to segregation of Ga out of the alloy. For the uncoated sample, the WL rises higher than for Pt/MgAl2O4 (1.32 compared to 1.25), so it is plausible that not only Ga segregation occurs but also a certain degree of oxidation. However, oxidation of Pt by CO2 is not expected based on the response of monometallic Pt/MgAl2O4 to CO2 (Figure S4 in the Supporting Information). A similar observation was made in previous work on Pt–Sn samples. (22,48) Therein, increases in WL intensity upon oxidation by CO2 at the Pt-LIII edge for a bimetallic system involving Pt were strongly dependent on the nanoparticle size. In the current system, however, SAXS data show that the difference in average nanoparticle size between coated and uncoated WI samples is minimal; hence, size is not a cause for the difference in WL intensity after CO2-TPO. Then, the partial oxidation of Pt must be related to the oxidation of Ga to Ga2O3, and these oxygen atoms are somehow shared with Pt. Since the WL increase for the coated sample is lower, this could mean that when the Ga segregates upon oxidation by CO2 from the alloy, it cannot freely rearrange on the surface of Pt to share oxygen, as there is an alumina coating present blocking some sites.
Isothermal redox cycles with O2/H2 were performed at 923 K to mimic reaction/regeneration cycle steps. As expected, alternating alloy formation/segregation was taking place. The change of the WL intensity in each step of the redox cycling is shown in Supporting Information Figure S5, depicting the maxima reached at the end of each half-cycle. The extent of oxidation by O2 for the uncoated sample decreases with increasing number of cycles, from 1.49 as the WL intensity in the first O2 half-cycle to 1.42 and then 1.38 for the third half-cycle. This difference in the extent of oxidation could be due to an increase in Ga composition in the sample with each cycle, as was indicated by the CO-DRIFTS experiments. The potential for Ga to oxidize is higher than for Pt, and therefore in the oxidation half-cycle Ga oxidizes to Ga2O3 and gets extracted from the PtGa alloy. There it could gradually cover the Pt sites and prevent its oxidation by O2, leading to less regeneration of the Pt WL intensity with increasing redox cycles. A similar phenomenon is observed for the coated sample. The trend observed over the redox cycles could also be due to particle sintering, but as shown by SAXS, the nanoparticle size remains more or less similar, so this cause can be discarded.
3.4.2. Pt/MgGaAlO and 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO
In the as-prepared state, both incorporated samples have a Pt XANES spectrum that closely resembles that of their wet-impregnated counterparts (Figure 6). Uncoated Pt/MgGaAlO contains highly oxidized Pt, while Pt appears more reduced in 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO but not alloyed.
Figure 6
Figure 6. RT XANES spectra before and subsequent to every treatment (H2-TPR, CO2-TPO, H2/O2 redox cycles finishing with a H2 reduction step) for the Pt/MgGaAlO samples: (a) uncoated and (b) coated.
H2-TPR leads to a similar change as for the WI samples. However, the incorporated samples have lower final WL intensities than the WI samples, at about the same intensity as for the Pt foil (1.19), namely 1.18 (uncoated) and 1.19 (coated). The final position for these samples is at 11 568 eV, 0.5 eV higher than for the WI samples. This indicates that there is deeper alloying and a larger fraction of Ga entering the PtGa alloy compared to the WI counterparts due to the promoter incorporation. During the reduction, Ga gets extracted from the support and migrates to the surface to form an alloy phase with the Pt nanoparticles. (17)
CO2-TPO on the coated sample led to a WL intensity increase from 1.19 to 1.34, which indicates that the coating did not hinder the alloy segregation between Pt and Ga, giving rise to “shared” oxidation of Pt for this sample. In fact, the WL intensity rises higher than for the coated WI sample (1.34 vs 1.25 for the WI sample), pointing to a more oxidized state for Pt.
Similar to the wet-impregnated samples, there is consistent alloy formation and segregation taking place during multiple O2/H2 redox cycles. The final state of Pt after five cycles lies close to the state after H2-TPR for both samples (Supporting Information Figure S6). The incorporated samples show similar trends as the WI samples for consecutive redox cycles, i.e., a decreasing WL increase. Hence, the Ga fraction in the PtGa alloy increases with the redox cycles, so that upon reoxidation larger Ga2O3 patches block more and more Pt sites.
3.5. EXAFS Results
EXAFS fitting results for the Ga-incorporated samples are presented here in this work. The fitting of the data obtained for the WI samples was not straightforward as the S/N ratio was lower than for the incorporated samples (see Supporting Information Figure S9 for an example k-space signal).
EXAFS spectra were recorded before and after each high temperature treatment at room temperature. Fittings in general were performed for one or two shells depending on the spectra in the R range of 1.2–3.4 Å. The crystal structures used for the fits were Pt crystal (Fm3m, cubic, Pt–Pt = 2.81 Å), Pt:Ga 3:1 crystal (I4/mcm, tetragonal, Pt–Ga = 2.58 Å, Pt–Pt = 2.81 Å), and PtO2 crystal (Pnnm, orthorhombic, Pt–O = 2.03 Å). All R factors of the fits were within 0.06, and the fitting results are shown in Table 4 and Supporting Information Figure S8.
Table 4. EXAFS Fitting Results at the Pt-LIII Edge for Pt/MgGaAlO and 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO Catalysts for the As-Prepared and H2/O2 Redox-Cycled (Reduction as Last) States
Pt/MgGaAlO 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO
as-prepared after redox cycles as-prepared after redox cycles
NPt–O 5.22 ± 1.10 NPt–Ga 1.60 ± 0.45 NPt–O 2.06 ± 0.50 NPt–Ga 1.60 ± 0.47
RPt–O 2.01 ± 0.01 RPt–Ga 2.62 ± 0.03 RPt–O 2.01 ± 0.01 RPt–Ga 2.62 ± 0.02
σ2Pt–O 0.0026 ± 0.0001 σ2Pt–Ga 0.006 ± 0.002 σ2Pt–O 0.002 ± 0.001 σ2Pt–Ga 0.007 ± 0.002
    NPt–Pt 7.38 ± 1.80 NPt–Pt 4.02 ± 0.60 NPt–Pt 7.30 ± 1.97
    RPt–Pt 2.71 ± 0.02 RPt–Pt 2.70 ± 0.01 RPt–Pt 2.71 ± 0.02
    σ2Pt–Pt 0.012 ± 0.004 σ2Pt–Pt 0.008 ± 0.001 σ2Pt–Pt 0.014 ± 0.004
E0 –4.6 ± 3.3 E0 2.0 ± 4.8 eV E0 –4.9 ± 3.9 E0 2.1 ± 3.5
R factor 0.06 R factor 0.04 R factor 0.06 R factor 0.04
The fitting of the “as-prepared” uncoated sample was possible with a single Pt–O shell, while for the coated sample it was performed with both Pt–O and Pt–Pt shells. This is expected as the sample was reduced prior to coating with alumina, which is why there are Pt neighbors. The sample gets partially oxidized as has been mentioned before, due to which oxygen neighbors are observed.
Fitting results for the “after H2-TPR” state are not presented in this work as the data were not of sufficient quality for a reasonable fit (Supporting Informaton Figure S9). The fitting results for the state “after CO2-TPO” are shown in Supporting Information Table S1 and Figure S10 for the coated incorporated sample. The coordination for the Pt–O shell is 2.03 with a distance of 1.91 Å. This distance is lower than what is typically expected for Pt–O (2.04 Å), which suggests that O is coming from the oxidized Ga. Since this O is shared, the bond distance is contracted due to the higher electronegativity of Pt over Ga.
After redox cycling, an alloy is formed between Pt and Ga as confirmed by the fitting results for the cycled state of the sample (Table 4). The similar values for the coordination numbers obtained for both the coated and uncoated samples show that the alumina coating did not hinder the alloy formation between the Pt and Ga, which confirms the findings from the XANES results. The k-space signals (Supporting Information Figure S7) are very similar for both samples. The amount of Ga in the PtGa alloy can be estimated by eq 5 based on the assumption that Ga is distributed uniformly throughout the alloy. The fraction of Ga in the alloy turns out to be 18% after the redox cycles.
(5)
The nanoparticle size (after cycles) can be estimated from the sum of the coordination numbers of Pt–Pt and Pt–Ga based on the assumption of a hemispherical nanoparticle shape. (59) The total N is NPt–Pt + NPt–Ga = 1.60 + 7.30 = 8.90, which leads to a cluster size of ∼2.2 nm for both samples (coated and uncoated). This value matches the values obtained from SAXS (2.2 nm, Table 3), showing that combining XAS and SAXS leads to consistent results. Even with the use of a photodiode detector leading in some cases to lower a S/N ratio (Figure S9), the XAS data are of sufficient quality to extract fitting values for the first and second shell of Pt neighbors for these states.
3.6. Activity Tests–Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH)
Catalytic activity tests for PDH were performed for Pt/MgAl2O4, PtGa/MgAl2O4, Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4, Pt/MgGaAlO, and Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO. The results for these tests are shown in Figures 7 and 8 and Figures S11, S12, and S13.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Activity test results for PDH over the coated and uncoated PtGa WI catalysts. (a) Propane conversions for the different catalysts; (b) propylene selectivity; (c) propylene yields. Flows: C3H8 = 40 N mL/min, H2 = 40 N mL/min, and Ar = 120 N mL/min. Ratio: C3H8:H2:Ar = 1:1:3. Total flow = 200 N mL/min. Catalyst amount = 0.1 g. T = 873 K. P = 1.2 bar. For STY refer to Supporting Information Figure S12.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Conversion and selectivity plots for (a) Pt/MgGaAlO, (b) 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO, and (c) 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO. For STY refer to Supporting Information Figure S13. Flows: C3H8 = 40 N mL/min, H2 = 40 N mL/min, and Ar = 120 N mL/min. Ratio: C3H8:H2:Ar = 1:1:3. Total flow = 200 N mL/min. Catalyst amount = 0.1 g. T = 873 K. P = 1.2 bar.
Monometallic Pt Activity (Coated and Uncoated)
A set of PDH experiments were performed for the monometallic Pt/MgAl2O4 and 10Al2O3/Pt/MgAl2O4 catalysts for comparing the change in activity. Surprisingly, the coated catalyst performed better than the uncoated catalyst in terms of overall conversion (Figure S11). This was tested after one H2 reduction step of 30 min at 873 K and after five H2/O2 redox cycles with H2 reduction as the last step. The redox cycles are performed as mentioned in section 2.3. However, the deactivation profiles are very similar for both catalysts, which suggests that there is probably less carbon formed on the coated sample than on the uncoated. Typically, undercoordinated sites are responsible for most carbon formation due to their inherent higher activity, but the presence of the alumina coating likely covers these sites. (24) This would lead to more active sites availability (prevention of blockage of sites by carbon) and therefore better overall conversions.
To see if this hypothesis is correct, the two catalysts were tested at the same conversion (∼20%) for a TOS of 1.5 h, followed by burning off the carbon formed during PDH with O2. The m/z signals at 44 and 32 were followed to quantify the amounts of carbon formed. For the coated sample, the total amount of C was 0.617 mmol, while for the uncoated it was 0.763 mmol C. This is approximately a 20% reduction in the amount of carbon formed at the same conversion.
PtGa WI Samples (Coated and Uncoated)
As expected, the addition of Ga as promoter to Pt in the WI catalyst (Figure 7) leads to an improvement in conversion (17) (pink to black squares). The addition of a coating over PtGa brings down the activity (Figure 7, black to red and blue squares). The absolute conversions of propane for 40Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4 and the monometallic Pt/MgAl2O4 are very similar after one redox step. So, there is a marked difference between the coated and uncoated PtGa catalysts after single redox activation, in that the uncoated samples showed much better performance in terms of activity and selectivity toward propylene. With increasing O2/H2 redox cycles, however, all the PtGa catalysts show improvement in terms of activity (squares to circles). The latter can be ascribed to a higher amount of Ga in the PtGa alloy, induced by the repeated alloying–segregating action of the redox cycles. The selectivity of uncoated PtGa decreases upon subjugation to five redox cycles, just like for monometallic Pt/MgAl2O4. In contrast, the selectivity for the coated samples remains at similar levels after one and five redox cycles, despite an increase in propane conversion. Upon closer inspection of Figure 7b, it can be stated that with increasing TOS the selectivity of the ∼4 nm coated sample becomes better than that of the ∼1 nm coated sample. However, the total conversion of the ∼1 nm coated sample is still higher, and it provides higher yields of propylene. It can be speculated that the presence of the thicker coating just blocks more active sites for reaction, leading to lower activity, and the states of the PtGa alloy in the 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4 and 40Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4 samples are quite similar after five redox cycles. The lower initial selectivity (compared to the 1 nm coated sample) for the ∼4 nm coated sample could have to do with the material properties of alumina itself, as it is slightly acidic, favoring more cracking reactions.
As coating leads to a loss of the absolute yield toward propylene, it can be deduced that it is hindering PtGa alloy formation for these WI samples. With increasing redox cycles, the coated catalyst does gain some activity but not to the same extent as the uncoated catalyst, due to a lower fraction of Ga entering the PtGa alloy. This is why the initial performance after one redox cycle is very similar for Pt/MgAl2O4 and the thickest coated PtGa sample (∼4 nm), as there is minimal Ga in the alloy. For the thinner coating (∼1 nm), alloying is less hindered, resulting in a slightly higher activity compared to monometallic Pt (after one redox treatment). After five redox cycles, the coated PtGa catalysts do perform better than the monometallic Pt catalyst because the cycling brings more Ga into the PtGa alloy, as indicated by the findings from sections 3.3 and 3.4.1.
Incorporated Samples
All the incorporated samples were tested for PDH after 1, 5, and 10 O2/H2 redox cycles. All detailed results are listed in Supporting Informaton Table S2 with plots in Figure S13 and Figure 8. Performance in terms of overall yield toward propylene of the Ga-incorporated samples was better when compared to the WI samples (after one and five redox cycles, Figure S14). The selectivity toward propylene was substantially higher for the Ga-incorporated samples (>95%, Figure 8) than for the WI samples (70–85%, Figure 7). The findings from XAS provide an explanation, as after reduction and cycling the WL intensity in the XANES region was found to be lower for the incorporated samples than for the WI samples. The latter points to more Ga being present in the PtGa alloy, accounting for the better performance. The superior performance of the incorporated samples over the WI samples is in line with the literature. (17,18)
The 1 nm alumina coated incorporated sample at first glance does not show a big difference in terms of performance toward PDH when compared to the uncoated sample (after 5 redox and 10 redox). However, the uncoated catalyst loses more activity for the same duration of reaction. The loss in performance for the uncoated sample with one redox cycle (25% to 16% over 2 h) is much higher than for the coated sample (10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO: 31.7 to 25.9% over 2 h). This difference could be due to the preparation of the two catalysts: the coated sample has essentially undergone several extra steps before and after coating (prereduction, air exposure, inert annealing, which is reflected in the activity. Most likely, the uncoated catalyst after one redox treatment will not have the same Ga promotion as the coated sample. This is confirmed from Figure S6 where the first O2 half-cycle led to a WL maximum of 1.45 for the uncoated sample, while it was 1.41 for the coated sample. The total amount of carbon formed cannot be compared as the conversions are completely different.
Performance after five redox cycles for the uncoated and 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO samples can be compared due to their similar initial activities (Figure 8). The coated sample loses less activity (loss of 2.3% propane conversion) over a longer duration of reaction (2 h) than the uncoated sample (2.76% in 1 h). The total amount of carbon formed during the reaction is also very similar (1.05 vs 1 mmol C), even though the coated sample was tested for PDH for 2 h versus 1 h for the uncoated sample after five redox cycles (details in Table S2). The result is the same after 10 redox cycles as well, where the coated sample still performs better than the uncoated sample.
A sample with a coating thickness of ∼4 nm is also tested (40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO) and performs worse than the uncoated and 1 nm coated samples, which is in line with what was observed for the WI samples. The thicker the coating, the greater the loss of active sites for reaction.
The activity for the 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO sample was not affected by the coating as much as that for the 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO sample. The reason for this could be found in the SAXS result. According to SAXS, the average PtGa nanoparticle sizes are about 2–2.4 nm, while the thickness of the coating for the 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO sample is ∼1 nm. As the latter is smaller than the NP itself, redox cycling could move the coating off the top surface of the NP toward the sides, thereby blocking some undercoordinated sites of the Pt, which are typically the most active sites for PDH, entailing deep dehydrogenation and hence responsible for a major portion of the carbon formation. (17,24,60) As such, 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO shows an activity similar to the Pt/MgGaAlO catalyst, while generating less carbon during the process at similar conversions. For the 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO sample, the coating thickness (∼4 nm) is more than the particle size itself, and hence it is inevitable that activity is lost due to blocking of active sites (Table S2).
The selectivity toward propylene is also very slightly reduced with increasing coating thickness, despite the fact that the overall conversion of propane is much lower for the ∼4 nm coated sample when compared to the ∼1 nm coated sample. This is similar to what was observed for the WI samples and could have to do with the properties of alumina (coating) and its slightly acidic nature, which would lead to more cracking reactions. (61)
When looking at the results obtained from the activity tests for the incorporated samples and the monometallic Pt sample, it is quite evident that the presence of a promoter and coating helps to improve the activity (conversion, STY-propylene) by blocking sites of the Pt catalyst (from coating), which are responsible for C formation. This was confirmed by the C quantification for the catalysts at similar conversions (Table S2). Therefore, the alumina coating, which was applied in light of reducing sintering, also had another positive effect, which is the suppression of C formation.
3.7. STEM Results
The STEM images for fresh and extensively cycled samples (after 40 H2/O2 redox cycles) with their respective histograms are depicted in Figure 9 a–f. It is quite evident that increasing thickness of alumina coatings leads to better stability toward sintering of the NPs. The starting average NP sizes are similar for all the samples at ∼1.5 nm. The average NP size after 40 redox cycles increases in the order of 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO < 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO < Pt/MgGaAlO (4.9 nm < 5.5 nm < 6.3 nm). The thicker the alumina coating, the lower the effect of sintering as the images confirm.
Figure 9
Figure 9. HAADF STEM images of Pt/MgGaAlO, 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO, and 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO; (a), (c), and (e) as-prepared samples, respectively, and (b), (d), and (f) after 40 redox cycles.
4. Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The application of SAXS and XAS in parallel yielded useful information as far as understanding the catalyst is concerned. SAXS provided Pt particle sizes and indicated that the catalyst did not really sinter during the in situ measurements, consisting of five redox cycles. The combination of SAXS and XAS allowed one to conclude that the alumina coating was restricting the free mobility of the surface NPs for the WI samples (section 3.4.1).
XAS data further indicated that for the coated WI samples the extent of alloying between Pt and Ga was limited due to obstruction by the applied alumina coating of free mobility of the surface NPs required to form an alloy. Besides indirectly confirming the presence of a coating, these results indicate that it is viable to apply alumina coatings on a powder catalyst by ALD. The phenomena discussed are represented in the schematics shown in Figure 10.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Schematic for the coated and uncoated (1 nm coating sample) WI samples. (a) As-prepared state for the uncoated sample; (b1) reduction process for alloy formation; (b2) reduced state for the uncoated sample. Note that not all Pt and Ga participate in alloy formation. (c) Partial oxidation of Pt and Ga upon exposure to the atmosphere leading to alloy segregation; (d) coating with alumina by ALD leading to the coated state; (e) as-prepared state for the coated catalyst after inert calcination; (f) reduced state for the coated sample. Note: the fraction of Ga in PtGax alloy is reduced when compared to the uncoated sample.
The activity test results for the WI samples yielded information that the coated samples in terms of absolute conversion performed slightly worse than the uncoated samples. The activities improved upon subjecting the sample to multiple redox cycles, but the uncoated sample always performed better in terms of selectivity and conversion. These activity tests indicate that the WI samples originally do not have the optimal composition for PDH reaction, as evidenced by the improvement after multiple redox cycles, the latter due to increasing promoter/Ga content in the PtGa alloy with the redox cycles. The WI method of sample preparation typically has limited control on the location of the metals on the support surface. Especially on larger surface area supports, it is possible that PtOx and GaOx NPs are located far apart, thereby not facilitating alloy formation. The application of multiple redox cycles will enable some migration of the NPs on the surface, thereby yielding more alloying. In light of this, the alumina coating might better be applied on the WI samples after multiple redox cycles (>5), so that a proper alloy composition is already reached. In the current conditions, where the coating was applied on a noncycled WI sample, the coated samples always give rise to a lower selectivity toward propylene and probably higher overall carbon formation.
The issues of the WI samples are not faced by the Ga-incorporated samples (Pt/MgGaAlO, 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO, and 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO). This is primarily because the alloying process for such a sample does not rely on the surface location of the NPs. Instead, the Ga located in the support close to the WI Pt will get “extracted” from the support by hydrogen spillover and form a PtGa alloy. Hence, the presence of a coating should not affect the process of alloy formation. This was evidenced in the activity test results, based on the values of the selectivity achieved (>95%). Upon multiple redox treatments, the activity followed a similar pattern for all these samples. The 1 nm coated sample performed slightly better than the uncoated sample in terms of overall carbon formation and deactivation over similar reaction time periods. Combining the knowledge from SAXS with the activity results, PtGa NP alloys of approximately the same size (∼2.2 nm diameter) are giving slightly different activity trends, while the coated sample provided lower carbon formation. Given the thickness of the coating, it is probably not covering the entire NP but rather certain parts at the interface between the NP and the support, which are responsible for carbon formation (undercoordinated sites). This hypothesis was tested by calculating the total carbon formation for the 1 nm coated and uncoated sample, at the same conversions, which indeed yielded less carbon for the coated samples as discussed in section 3.6. A schematic of what takes place for the incorporated catalyst is shown in Figure 11.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Schematic for the coated and uncoated (1 nm coating sample) INC samples. (a) As-prepared state for the uncoated sample; (b) reduced state for the uncoated sample. For this sample all the Pt participates in alloy formation. (c) Partial oxidation of Pt and Ga upon exposure to the atmosphere leading to alloy segregation; (d) coating with alumina by ALD leading to the coated state; (e) as-prepared state for the coated catalyst after inert calcination; (f) reduced state for the coated sample. Note: the fraction of Ga in PtGax alloy is unaffected, which is unlike the WI samples. Whatever Ga is lost upon partial oxidation or because of hindrance of mobility due to coating on the surface is regained through the support.
Finally from STEM results it is clear that the alumina coating limits the extent of sintering of the surface NPs, and increasing thickness of the alumina coatings results in a reduced sintering effect.
5. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
PtGa catalysts prepared by two different methods were investigated for the PDH reaction. These catalysts were coated with alumina by means of ALD to investigate the effect on sintering of the NPs. A combination of in situ SAXS (ASAXS) and XAS was successfully applied to investigate the effect of coating on the catalyst. The only drawback of the parallel application of SAXS and XAS was the use of a photodiode for XAS registration to accommodate SAXS acquisition, which led to data with lower signal-to-noise ratio. Despite this, these in situ techniques evidenced that the presence of the alumina coating hindered alloy formation between Pt and Ga in the case of the WI samples, while it did not in the case of the Ga-incorporated samples. For a limited number of in situ redox cycles, no sintering was observed. For more extensive cycling, particle size distributions from STEM do confirm sintering, though less for the coated samples.
The activity tests for the incorporated samples reflected the above findings. The coating did not prevent access of reactant molecules to the catalyst surface. It did however reduce total activity toward PDH, even more so for a thicker coating, which leads to the conclusion that access is more hindered with increasing coating thickness. However, the presence of a coating leads to lower absolute carbon formation by blocking undercoordinated sites of Pt and slower deactivation with time on stream. Although coating leads to loss of activity compared to uncoated samples, redox cycling allows to regain some of the activity, especially for the thin alumina coating.
Finally, WI samples are more hindered by the coating application than incorporated samples because they rely on PtOx and GaOx NPs proximity for alloy formation. The presence of a coating then reduces the mobility of these particles. The latter is not the case for incorporated samples, where the promoter is delivered from within the support, thus not hindering alloying. Ideally, the alumina coating for the WI sample should be applied after subjecting the catalyst to multiple redox cycles in order to increase the Ga content in the PtGa alloy, since after the application of such a coating it is very difficult to increase the fraction of Ga in the PtGa alloy.
Although this work uses Ga as a promoter, these findings can be extrapolated for other promoters such as Sn, In, etc., as the process of alloy formation would remain the same.
Supporting Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acscatal.1c03146.
SAXS fits, XANES spectra for Pt/MgAl2O4, XANES spectra for redox-cycling experiments, XAS spectra and modeling, activity tests in the STY scale for the WI and Ga-incorporated samples, and activity plots for monometallic Pt samples (coated and uncoated) (PDF)
cs1c03146_si_001.pdf (1.62 MB)
Terms & Conditions
Most electronic Supporting Information files are available without a subscription to ACS Web Editions. Such files may be downloaded by article for research use (if there is a public use license linked to the relevant article, that license may permit other uses). Permission may be obtained from ACS for other uses through requests via the RightsLink permission system: http://pubs.acs.org/page/copyright/permissions.html.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Vladimir. V. Galvita - Laboratory for Chemical Technology, Ghent University, Technologiepark 125, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium;  https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9205-7917;  Email: Vladimir.Galvita@UGent.be
Authors
Nadadur Veeraraghavan Srinath - Laboratory for Chemical Technology, Ghent University, Technologiepark 125, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2586-7167
Alessandro Longo - Istituto per lo Studio dei Materiali Nanostrutturati (ISMN), CNR, UOS Palermo, Via Ugo La Malfa, 153, 90146 Palermo, Italy
Hilde Poelman - Laboratory for Chemical Technology, Ghent University, Technologiepark 125, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium;  https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4267-7397
Ranjith K. Ramachandran - Department of Solid State Sciences, CoCooN Group, Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281/S1, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9423-219X
Ji-Yu Feng - Department of Solid State Sciences, CoCooN Group, Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281/S1, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium
Jolien Dendooven - Department of Solid State Sciences, CoCooN Group, Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281/S1, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2385-3693
Marie-Françoise Reyniers - Laboratory for Chemical Technology, Ghent University, Technologiepark 125, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgments
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This work is part of a project funded by the Fund for Scientific Research Flanders (FWO-Vlaanderen project G0A3717N). The work was supported by the Fund for Scientific Research Flanders (FWO-Vlaanderen) in supplying financing of beam time at the DUBBLE beamline of the ESRF and travel costs. The authors acknowledge the DUBBLE staff for their assistance (XAS campaign 26-01-1169).
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 61 other publications.
1Duan, S.; Du, Z.; Fan, H.; Wang, R. Nanostructure Optimization of Platinum-Based Nanomaterials for Catalytic Applications. Nanomaterials 2018, 8, 949,  DOI: 10.3390/nano8110949 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
2Xu, Y.; Zhang, B. Recent Advances in Porous Pt-Based Nanostructures: Synthesis and Electrochemical Applications. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2014, 43 (8), 2439– 2450,  DOI: 10.1039/c3cs60351b [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
3Badwal, S. P. S.; Giddey, S.; Kulkarni, A.; Goel, J.; Basu, S. Direct Ethanol Fuel Cells for Transport and Stationary Applications – A Comprehensive Review. Appl. Energy 2015, 145, 80– 103,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apenergy.2015.02.002 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
4Chen, A.; Holt-Hindle, P. Platinum-Based Nanostructured Materials: Synthesis, Properties, and Applications. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110 (6), 3767– 3804,  DOI: 10.1021/cr9003902 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
5Wei, Z.; Sun, J.; Li, Y.; Datye, A. K.; Wang, Y. Bimetallic Catalysts for Hydrogen Generation. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012, 41 (24), 7994– 8008,  DOI: 10.1039/c2cs35201j [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
6Sulaiman, N.; Hannan, M. A.; Mohamed, A.; Majlan, E. H.; Wan Daud, W. R. A Review on Energy Management System for Fuel Cell Hybrid Electric Vehicle: Issues and Challenges. Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 2015, 52, 802– 814,  DOI: 10.1016/j.rser.2015.07.132 [Crossref], Google Scholar
7Atanga, M. A.; Rezaei, F.; Jawad, A.; Fitch, M.; Rownaghi, A. A. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane to Propylene with Carbon Dioxide. Appl. Catal., B 2018, 220, 429– 445,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcatb.2017.08.052 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
8Sattler, J. J. H. B.; Ruiz-Martinez, J.; Santillan-Jimenez, E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides. Chem. Rev. 2014, 114 (20), 10613– 10653,  DOI: 10.1021/cr5002436 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
9Corma, A.; Corresa, E.; Mathieu, Y.; Sauvanaud, L.; Al-Bogami, S.; Al-Ghrami, M. S.; Bourane, A. Crude Oil to Chemicals: Light Olefins from Crude Oil. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2017, 7 (1), 12– 46,  DOI: 10.1039/C6CY01886F [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
10de Reviere, A.; Gunst, D.; Sabbe, M.; Verberckmoes, A. Sustainable Short-Chain Olefin Production through Simultaneous Dehydration of Mixtures of 1-Butanol and Ethanol over HZSM-5 and γ-Al2O3. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2020, 89, 257– 272,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jiec.2020.05.022 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Gomez, E.; Kattel, S.; Yan, B.; Yao, S.; Liu, P.; Chen, J. G. Combining CO2 Reduction with Propane Oxidative Dehydrogenation over Bimetallic Catalysts. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9 (1), 1– 6,  DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
12Iglesias-Juez, A.; Beale, A. M.; Maaijen, K.; Weng, T. C.; Glatzel, P.; Weckhuysen, B. M. A Combined in Situ Time-Resolved UV – Vis, Raman and High-Energy Resolution X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy Study on the Deactivation Behavior of Pt and Pt A Sn Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts under Industrial Reaction Conditions. J. Catal. 2010, 276 (2), 268– 279,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.09.018 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
13Fiedorow, R. M. J.; Chahar, B. S.; Wanke, S. E. The Sintering of Supported Metal Catalysts: II. Comparison of Sintering Rates of Supported Pt, Ir, and Rh Catalysts in Hydrogen and Oxygen. J. Catal. 1978, 51 (2), 193– 202,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(78)90293-2 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
14Moulijn, J. A.; van Diepen, A. E.; Kapteijn, F. Catalyst Deactivation: Is It Predictable?: What to Do?. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 212 (1), 3– 16,  DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(00)00842-5 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
15Bariås, O. A.; Holmen, A.; Blekkan, E. A. Propane Dehydrogenation over Supported Pt and Pt–Sn Catalysts: Catalyst Preparation, Characterization, and Activity Measurements. J. Catal. 1996, 158 (1), 1– 12,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1996.0001 [Crossref], Google Scholar
16Filez, M.; Redekop, E. A.; Galvita, V. V.; Poelman, H.; Meledina, M.; Turner, S.; Van Tendeloo, G.; Bell, A. T.; Marin, G. B. The Role of Hydrogen during Pt–Ga Nanocatalyst Formation. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2016, 18 (4), 3234– 3243,  DOI: 10.1039/C5CP07344H [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
17Redekop, E. A.; Galvita, V. V.; Poelman, H.; Bliznuk, V.; Detavernier, C.; Marin, G. B. Delivering a Modifying Element to Metal Nanoparticles via Support: Pt–Ga Alloying during the Reduction of Pt/Mg(Al, Ga)Ox Catalysts and Its Effects on Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2014, 4 (6), 1812– 1824,  DOI: 10.1021/cs500415e [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
18Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. Synthesis and Characterization of a New Catalyst Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O for Alkane Dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2010, 274 (2), 192– 199,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
19Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Vining, W. C.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. Novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O Catalysts for Ethane and Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2011, 282 (1), 165– 174,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
20Han, Z.; Li, S.; Jiang, F.; Wang, T.; Ma, X.; Gong, J. Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt–Cu Bimetallic Catalysts: The Nature of Coke Deposition and the Role of Copper. Nanoscale 2014, 6 (17), 10000– 10008,  DOI: 10.1039/C4NR02143F [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
21Sugiyama, S.; Osaka, T.; Hirata, Y.; Sotowa, K. Enhancement of the Activity for Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane on Calcium Hydroxyapatite Substituted with Vanadate. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 312, 52– 58,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2006.06.018 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
22Srinath, N. V.; Poelman, H.; Reyniers, M.-F.; Dendooven, J.; Galvita, V. Redox Evolution of Pt-Sn Alloys Studied by Time-Resolved XAS. In 14th European Congress on Catalysis (EuropaCat 2019): Catalysis without Borders ; 2019.Google Scholar
23Kondratenko, E. V.; Cherian, M.; Baerns, M.; Su, D.; Schlogl, R.; Wang, X.; Wachs, I. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over V/MCM-41 Catalysts: Comparison of O2 and N2O as Oxidants 2005, 234, 131– 142,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025 [Crossref], Google Scholar
24Lu, Z.; Tracy, R. W.; Abrams, M. L.; Nicholls, N. L.; Barger, P. T.; Li, T.; Stair, P. C.; Dameron, A. A.; Nicholas, C. P.; Marshall, C. L. Atomic Layer Deposition Overcoating Improves Catalyst Selectivity and Longevity in Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catal. 2020, 10 (23), 13957– 13967,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c03391 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
25Yan, H.; He, K.; Samek, I. A.; Jing, D.; Nanda, M. G.; Stair, P. C.; Notestein, J. M. Tandem In2O3-Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst for Coupling of Propane Dehydrogenation to Selective H2 Combustion. Science (Washington, DC, U. S.) 2021, 371 (6535), 1257– 1260,  DOI: 10.1126/science.abd4441 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
26Ma, Z.; Brown, S.; Howe, J. Y.; Overbury, S. H.; Dai, S. Surface Modification of Au/TiO2 Catalysts by SiO2 via Atomic Layer Deposition. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112 (25), 9448– 9457,  DOI: 10.1021/jp801484h [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
27Yi, H.; Du, H.; Hu, Y.; Yan, H.; Jiang, H.; Lu, J. Precisely Controlled Porous Alumina Overcoating on Pd Catalyst by Atomic Layer Deposition: Enhanced Selectivity and Durability in Hydrogenation of 1,3-Butadiene. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 2735– 2739,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b00129 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Lu, J.; Fu, B.; Kung, M. C.; Xiao, G.; Elam, J. W.; Kung, H. H.; Stair, P. C. Coking- and Sintering-Resistant Palladium Catalysts Achieved Through Atomic Layer Deposition. Science (Washington, DC, U. S.) 2012, 335 (6073), 1205– 1208,  DOI: 10.1126/science.1212906 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Jeong, M.-G.; Kim, S. Y.; Kim, D. H.; Han, S. W.; Kim, I. H.; Lee, M.; Hwang, Y. K.; Kim, Y. D. High-Performing and Durable MgO/Ni Catalysts via Atomic Layer Deposition for CO2 Reforming of Methane (CRM). Appl. Catal., A 2016, 515, 45– 50,  DOI: 10.1016/j.apcata.2016.01.032 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
30Pham, H. N.; Anderson, A. E.; Johnson, R. L.; Schwartz, T. J.; O’Neill, B. J.; Duan, P.; Schmidt-Rohr, K.; Dumesic, J. A.; Datye, A. K. Carbon Overcoating of Supported Metal Catalysts for Improved Hydrothermal Stability. ACS Catal. 2015, 5 (8), 4546– 4555,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b00329 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
31Hong, J.; Aramesh, M.; Shimoni, O.; Seo, D. H.; Yick, S.; Greig, A.; Charles, C.; Prawer, S.; Murphy, A. B. Plasma Catalytic Synthesis of Ammonia Using Functionalized-Carbon Coatings in an Atmospheric-Pressure Non-Equilibrium Discharge. Plasma Chem. Plasma Process. 2016, 36, 917,  DOI: 10.1007/s11090-016-9711-8 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
32Detavernier, C.; Dendooven, J.; Pulinthanathu Sree, S.; Ludwig, K. F.; Martens, J. A. Tailoring Nanoporous Materials by Atomic Layer Deposition. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2011, 40 (11), 5242– 5253,  DOI: 10.1039/c1cs15091j [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
33O’Neill, B. J.; Sener, C.; Jackson, D. H. K.; Kuech, T. F.; Dumesic, J. A. Control of Thickness and Chemical Properties of Atomic Layer Deposition Overcoats for Stabilizing Cu/γ-Al2O3 Catalysts. ChemSusChem 2014, 7 (12), 3247– 3251,  DOI: 10.1002/cssc.201402832 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
34Gong, Y.; Palacio, D.; Song, X.; Patel, R. L.; Liang, X.; Zhao, X.; Goodenough, J. B.; Huang, K. Stabilizing Nanostructured Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Cathode with Atomic Layer Deposition. Nano Lett. 2013, 13 (9), 4340– 4345,  DOI: 10.1021/nl402138w [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
35Asundi, A. S.; Raiford, J. A.; Bent, S. F. Opportunities for Atomic Layer Deposition in Emerging Energy Technologies. ACS Energy Lett. 2019, 4 (4), 908– 925,  DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.9b00249 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
36Solano, E.; Dendooven, J.; Feng, J.-Y.; Brüner, P.; Minjauw, M. M.; Ramachandran, R. K.; Van Daele, M.; Van de Kerckhove, K.; Dobbelaere, T.; Coati, A.; Hermida-Merino, D.; Detavernier, C. In Situ Study of the Thermal Stability of Supported Pt Nanoparticles and Their Stabilization via Atomic Layer Deposition Overcoating. Nanoscale 2020, 12 (21), 11684– 11693,  DOI: 10.1039/D0NR02444A [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
37Wanke, S. E.; Flynn, P. C. The Sintering of Supported Metal Catalysts. Catal. Rev.: Sci. Eng. 1975, 12 (1), 93– 135,  DOI: 10.1080/01614947508067523 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
38Rasmussen, F. B.; Molenbroek, A. M.; Clausen, B. S.; Feidenhans, R. Particle Size Distribution of an Ni/SiO2 Catalyst Determined by ASAXS. J. Catal. 2000, 190 (1), 205– 208,  DOI: 10.1006/jcat.1999.2758 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
39Binninger, T.; Garganourakis, M.; Han, J.; Patru, A.; Fabbri, E.; Sereda, O.; Kötz, R.; Menzel, A.; Schmidt, T. J. Particle-Support Interferences in Small-Angle X-Ray Scattering from Supported-Catalyst Materials. Phys. Rev. Appl. 2015, 3 (2), 24012,  DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.3.024012 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
40Longo, A.; Theofanidis, S. A.; Cavallari, C.; Srinath, N. V.; Hu, J.; Poelman, H.; Sabbe, M. K.; Sahle, C. J.; Marin, G. B.; Galvita, V. V. What Makes Fe-Modified MgAl2O4 an Active Catalyst Support? Insight from X-Ray Raman Scattering. ACS Catal. 2020, 10 (12), 6613– 6622,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c00759 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
41Zeigarnik, A. V.; Valdés-Pérez, R. E.; Myatkovskaya, O. N. C-C Bond Scission in Ethane Hydrogenolysis. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104 (45), 10578– 10587,  DOI: 10.1021/jp001082g [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
42Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Bañares, M. A.; Krause, A. O. I. In Situ Characterisation of Carbon-Containing Species Formed on Chromia/Alumina during Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2005, 230 (2), 507– 513,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.005 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
43Solano, E.; Dendooven, J.; Ramachandran, R. K.; Van de Kerckhove, K.; Dobbelaere, T.; Hermida-Merino, D.; Detavernier, C. Key Role of Surface Oxidation and Reduction Processes in the Coarsening of Pt Nanoparticles †. Nanoscale 2017, 9, 13159,  DOI: 10.1039/C7NR04278G [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
44Nikitenko, S.; Beale, A. M.; van der Eerden, A. M. J.; Jacques, S. D. M.; Leynaud, O.; O’Brien, M. G.; Detollenaere, D.; Kaptein, R.; Weckhuysen, B. M.; Bras, W. Implementation of a Combined SAXS/WAXS/QEXAFS Set-up for Time-Resolved in Situ Experiments. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2008, 15 (6), 632– 640,  DOI: 10.1107/S0909049508023327 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
45Povia, M.; Herranz, J.; Binninger, T.; Nachtegaal, M.; Diaz, A.; Kohlbrecher, J.; Abbott, D. F.; Kim, B.-J.; Schmidt, T. J. Combining SAXS and XAS To Study the Operando Degradation of Carbon-Supported Pt-Nanoparticle Fuel Cell Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2018, 8 (8), 7000– 7015,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b01321 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
46Martis, V.; Beale, A. M.; Detollenaere, D.; Banerjee, D.; Moroni, M.; Gosselin, F.; Bras, W. A High-Pressure and Controlled-Flow Gas System for Catalysis Research. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2014, 21 (2), 462– 463,  DOI: 10.1107/S1600577513031937 [Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
47Srinath, N. V.; Poelman, H.; Longo, A.; Feng, J.-Y.; Dendooven, J.; Reyniers, M.-F.; Galvita, V. In Situ XAS/SAXS Study of Al2O3 Coated PtGa/MgAl2O4 Catalysts for Alkane Dehydrogenation. In 2019 AIChE Annual meeting (19-AIChE); American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 2019.Google Scholar
48Srinath, N. V.; Poelman, H.; Buelens, L.; Dendooven, J.; Reyniers, M.; Marin, G. B.; Galvita, V. V. Behaviour of Platinum-Tin during CO2-Assisted Propane Dehydrogenation: Insights from Quick X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Catal. 2021, accepted.Google Scholar
49Klementev, K. V. Package “VIPER (Visual Processing in EXAFS Researches) for Windows.. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. A 2000, 448 (1), 299– 301,  DOI: 10.1016/S0168-9002(99)00710-X [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
50Olsbye, U.; Moen, O.; Slagtern, Å.; Dahl, I. M. An Investigation of the Coking Properties of Fixed and Fluid Bed Reactors during Methane-to-Synthesis Gas Reactions. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 228 (1), 289– 303,  DOI: 10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00990-5 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
51Froment, G. F.; Bischoff, K. B.; De Wilde, J. Chemical Reactor Analysis and Design; Wiley: New York, 1990; Vol. 2.Google Scholar
52Mears, D. E. Diagnostic Criteria for Heat Transport Limitations in Fixed Bed Reactors. J. Catal. 1971, 20 (2), 127– 131,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(71)90073-X [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
53Ferguson, J. D.; Weimer, A. W.; George, S. M. Atomic Layer Deposition of Ultrathin and Conformal Al2O3 Films on BN Particles. Thin Solid Films 2000, 371 (1), 95– 104,  DOI: 10.1016/S0040-6090(00)00973-1 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
54Balakrishnan, K.; Schwank, J. FTIR Study of Bimetallic Pt-Sn/Al2O3 Catalysts. J. Catal. 1992, 138 (2), 491– 499,  DOI: 10.1016/0021-9517(92)90301-W [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
55Marchesini, F. A.; Gutierrez, L. B.; Querini, C. A.; Miró, E. E. Pt, In and Pd, In Catalysts for the Hydrogenation of Nitrates and Nitrites in Water. FTIR Characterization and Reaction Studies. Chem. Eng. J. 2010, 159 (1), 203– 211,  DOI: 10.1016/j.cej.2010.02.056 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
56Zhu, H.; Anjum, D. H.; Wang, Q.; Abou-Hamad, E.; Emsley, L.; Dong, H.; Laveille, P.; Li, L.; Samal, A. K.; Basset, J. M. Sn Surface-Enriched Pt-Sn Bimetallic Nanoparticles as a Selective and Stable Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Catal. 2014, 320 (1), 52– 62,  DOI: 10.1016/j.jcat.2014.09.013 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
57Filez, M.; Redekop, E. A.; Poelman, H.; Galvita, V. V.; Ramachandran, R. K.; Dendooven, J.; Detavernier, C.; Marin, G. B. Unravelling the Formation of Pt-Ga Alloyed Nanoparticles on Calcined Ga-Modified Hydrotalcites by in Situ XAS. Chem. Mater. 2014, 26 (20), 5936– 5949,  DOI: 10.1021/cm502658d [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
58Filez, M.; Redekop, E. A.; Poelman, H.; Galvita, V. V.; Marin, G. B. Advanced Elemental Characterization during Pt–In Catalyst Formation by Wavelet Transformed X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy. Anal. Chem. 2015, 87 (6), 3520– 3526,  DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b00109 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
59Frenkel, A. I.; Hills, C. W.; Nuzzo, R. G. A View from the Inside: Complexity in the Atomic Scale Ordering of Supported Metal Nanoparticles. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105 (51), 12689– 12703,  DOI: 10.1021/jp012769j [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
60Aly, M.; Fornero, E. L.; Leon-Garzon, A. R.; Galvita, V. V.; Saeys, M. Effect of Boron Promotion on Coke Formation during Propane Dehydrogenation over Pt/γ-Al2O3 Catalysts. ACS Catal. 2020, 10 (9), 5208– 5216,  DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b05548 [ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
61Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Shi, J.; Zhou, S.; Sheng, X.; Zhang, Z.; Xiang, S. Comparative Study of Bimetallic Pt-Sn Catalysts Supported on Different Supports for Propane Dehydrogenation. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2014, 381, 138– 147,  DOI: 10.1016/j.molcata.2013.10.007 [Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
0
Mentioning
9
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 8 publications.
Lidan Deng, Xiaowei Liu, Zaikun Wu, Jie Xu, Zijian Zhou, Minghou Xu. Effects of Synthesis Procedures on Pt–Sn Alloy Formation and Their Catalytic Activity for Propane Dehydrogenation. Catalysis Letters 2023, 55 https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-022-04263-1
Chenliang Ye, Mao Peng, Yang Li, Dingsheng Wang, Chen Chen, Yadong Li. Atomically dispersed Pt in ordered PtSnZn intermetallic with Pt−Sn and Pt−Zn pairs for selective propane dehydrogenation. Science China Materials 2022, 30 https://doi.org/10.1007/s40843-022-2251-8
Han‐Wen Cheng, Shan Wang, Guanyu Chen, Zhengwang Liu, Dominic Caracciolo, Merry Madiou, Shiyao Shan, Jincang Zhang, Heyong He, Renchao Che, Chuan‐Jian Zhong. Insights into Heterogeneous Catalysts under Reaction Conditions by In Situ/Operando Electron Microscopy. Advanced Energy Materials 2022, 12 (38) , 2202097. https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202202097
Fangyi Shi, Jingya Yu, Chunhong Chen, Shu Ping Lau, Wei Lv, Zheng-Long Xu. Advances in understanding and regulation of sulfur conversion processes in metal–sulfur batteries. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 2022, 10 (37) , 19412-19443. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA02217F
Sergei A. Chernyak, Massimo Corda, Jean-Pierre Dath, Vitaly V. Ordomsky, Andrei Y. Khodakov. Light olefin synthesis from a diversity of renewable and fossil feedstocks: state-of the-art and outlook. Chemical Society Reviews 2022, 51 (18) , 7994-8044. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CS01036K
Evgeniy A. Redekop, Hilde Poelman, Matthias Filez, Ranjith K. Ramachandran, Jolien Dendooven, Christophe Detavernier, Guy B. Marin, Unni Olsbye, Vladimir V. Galvita. Aligning time-resolved kinetics (TAP) and surface spectroscopy (AP-XPS) for a more comprehensive understanding of ALD-derived 2D and 3D model catalysts. Faraday Discussions 2022, 236 , 485-509. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1FD00120E
Fatemeh Gashoul Daresibi, Abbas Ali Khodadadi, Yadollah Mortazavi, Simo Huotari, Mikko Ritala. Highly dispersed atomic layer deposited CrOx on SiO2 catalyst with enhanced yield of propylene for CO2 –mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Molecular Catalysis 2022, 526 , 112396. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112396
Lingzhe Fang, Soenke Seifert, Randall E. Winans, Tao Li. Understanding Synthesis and Structural Variation of Nanomaterials Through In Situ/Operando XAS and SAXS. Small 2022, 18 (19) , 2106017. https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202106017
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Experimental scheme employed for in situ XAS/ASAXS measurements.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Normalized SAXS data after each treatment for (a) PtGa/MgAl2O4 and (b) 10Al2O3/PtGa/MgAl2O4. Five redox cycles were applied for the “after cycles” profile. These SAXS measurements were collected at room temperature.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Normalized SAXS data after each treatment for (a) Pt/MgGaAlO and (b) 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO. Five redox cycles were applied for the “after cycles” profile. These SAXS measurements were collected at room temperature.
Figure 4
Figure 4. FTIR spectra of CO adsorption on PtGa/MgAl2O4. CO adsorption was measured subsequent to 1, 5, and 10 H2/O2 redox cycles, culminating with a reduction step.
Figure 5
Figure 5. RT XANES spectra before and subsequent to every treatment (H2-TPR, CO2-TPO, H2/O2 redox cycles finishing with a H2 reduction step) for the PtGa/MgAl2O4 samples: (a) uncoated and (b) coated.
Figure 6
Figure 6. RT XANES spectra before and subsequent to every treatment (H2-TPR, CO2-TPO, H2/O2 redox cycles finishing with a H2 reduction step) for the Pt/MgGaAlO samples: (a) uncoated and (b) coated.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Activity test results for PDH over the coated and uncoated PtGa WI catalysts. (a) Propane conversions for the different catalysts; (b) propylene selectivity; (c) propylene yields. Flows: C3H8 = 40 N mL/min, H2 = 40 N mL/min, and Ar = 120 N mL/min. Ratio: C3H8:H2:Ar = 1:1:3. Total flow = 200 N mL/min. Catalyst amount = 0.1 g. T = 873 K. P = 1.2 bar. For STY refer to Supporting Information Figure S12.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Conversion and selectivity plots for (a) Pt/MgGaAlO, (b) 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO, and (c) 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO. For STY refer to Supporting Information Figure S13. Flows: C3H8 = 40 N mL/min, H2 = 40 N mL/min, and Ar = 120 N mL/min. Ratio: C3H8:H2:Ar = 1:1:3. Total flow = 200 N mL/min. Catalyst amount = 0.1 g. T = 873 K. P = 1.2 bar.
Figure 9
Figure 9. HAADF STEM images of Pt/MgGaAlO, 10Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO, and 40Al2O3/Pt/MgGaAlO; (a), (c), and (e) as-prepared samples, respectively, and (b), (d), and (f) after 40 redox cycles.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Schematic for the coated and uncoated (1 nm coating sample) WI samples. (a) As-prepared state for the uncoated sample; (b1) reduction process for alloy formation; (b2) reduced state for the uncoated sample. Note that not all Pt and Ga participate in alloy formation. (c) Partial oxidation of Pt and Ga upon exposure to the atmosphere leading to alloy segregation; (d) coating with alumina by ALD leading to the coated state; (e) as-prepared state for the coated catalyst after inert calcination; (f) reduced state for the coated sample. Note: the fraction of Ga in PtGax alloy is reduced when compared to the uncoated sample.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Schematic for the coated and uncoated (1 nm coating sample) INC samples. (a) As-prepared state for the uncoated sample; (b) reduced state for the uncoated sample. For this sample all the Pt participates in alloy formation. (c) Partial oxidation of Pt and Ga upon exposure to the atmosphere leading to alloy segregation; (d) coating with alumina by ALD leading to the coated state; (e) as-prepared state for the coated catalyst after inert calcination; (f) reduced state for the coated sample. Note: the fraction of Ga in PtGax alloy is unaffected, which is unlike the WI samples. Whatever Ga is lost upon partial oxidation or because of hindrance of mobility due to coating on the surface is regained through the support.

</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
