I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


StructurePerformance Relationships for Propane Dehydrogenation over Aluminum Supported Vanadium Oxide
Abstract
Supported vanadium oxides serve as a substitutional catalyst for both propane nonoxidative dehydrogenation (PDH) and oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), resulting from their substantial activity, propene selectivity, and regeneration rate. However, the nature of the active sites under reaction conditions is still under debate. This paper describes the structureperformance relationships of supported vanadium oxides at different degrees of polymerization by combined density function theory (DFT) and experimental studies. We found that when we expose the vanadium oxides to the pure propane gas, the reaction process can be divided into two periods: the initial oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) dominant period and subsequent nonoxidative dehydrogenation (PDH) dominant period. In the ODH dominant period, the vanadium oxides tend to lose the top oxygen (VO), while in the PDH dominant period, the vanadium oxides are relatively stable. Electronic structure analysis indicates that the oxygen p-band center correlates with the dehydrogenation barrier on the oxygen site, which is useful to predict its dehydrogenation activity.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:density function theory vanadium oxides oxidative dehydrogenation nonoxidative dehydrogenation electronic structure
1. Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propene is a crucial commodity chemical for the petrochemical industry. (1) Currently, the commercial approaches to produce propene, e.g., steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking of naphtha, light diesel, and other oil byproducts, cannot meet the growing demand of propene. With the boom of the shale gas, which drives the price of propane down, propane dehydrogenation, including nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), has been brought to the attention of the public due to its large profitability. Supported vanadium oxides are promising alternative catalysts along with industrial Pt and CrOx-based catalysts owing to their low price, excellent light olefin dehydrogenation activity, and substantial regeneration rate. (2,3)
However, due to the complex structure of supported vanadium oxides, the exact surface structure under reaction conditions (both ODH and PDH) still remains elusive. Many studies have suggested that monovanadate, polyvanadate, and V2O5 crystallite species can coexist on the support according to the vanadium loading. (47) It is generally accepted that the tetrahedral structure containing one VO bond and three bridging oxygen atoms (namely, VOSupport or VOV) is the most likely structure for the low polymeric supported vanadium oxides. (3) Most investigators agreed that VO is highly reactive but not favorable for propene selectivity, while the activities of VOSupport and VOV sites are still under debate. (3) Some researchers speculated that VOSupport bonds are critical to ODH reactions according to the fact that the apparent activation energies vary significantly among different supports (8,9) (from 68 kJ/mol to 157 kJ/mol). However, the surface structure of vanadium oxides is hard to illuminate purely by experimental techniques, including Raman or Diffused Reflectance Infrared Fourier Transform Spectroscopy (DRIFTS), preventing direct establishment of a structureactivity relationship. (10) Thus, the molecular investigation of supported vanadium oxides under ODH and PDH condition is urgently needed.
Recently, with the prosperity of the density function theory (DFT), quantities of vanadium oxides models, in both supported (1119) and crystalline slab (2022) forms, were established to investigate their performance on the ODH reactions. Dai and co-workers found that the VO site is highly active while VOV is more selective to propene over periodic single-crystal V2O5(001) surface. (20,22) Large numbers of studies have been conducted on vanadium oxide clusters supported on TiO2 and these works consistently stated that the monomeric vanadium clusters have high CH bond activation ability. (14,15,2325) Several works have been conducted with V-substituted silsesquioxane models to simulate the vanadium oxides supported on silica (18,26,27) in propane ODH reaction, among which Rozanska proposed that both VO and VOSi bonds act as active sites.
All these theoretical calculations mentioned above proposed that the active sites are the surface oxygens (namely, VO, VOV, VOSupport, etc.) and assumed that such surface oxygens are stable in the oxygen-rich environment and that the surface oxygens can be replenished immediately. (18,19,26,27) Nevertheless, in the burgeoning chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation process, the alkane is activated by lattice oxygen of transition metal oxides rather than gas phase oxygen. (28) In this process, attaching the propane without the oxygen atmosphere can cause the loss of surface oxygen, which may contribute to the changes of the active sites. Therefore, this work investigates the catalytic performance of aluminum supported monomeric, polymeric, and crystalline vanadium oxide structures under the propane conditions. We investigated the changing of active site during the initial ODH dominant periods and subsequent PDH dominant periods.
2. Computational Details and Experimental Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. DFT Calculations
Parameters
Periodic DFT calculations were carried out using Vienna ab initio simulation package. (29,30) We employed PerdewBurkeErnzerhof (PBE) exchange-correlation functional (31) with additional coulomb repulsion parameter Ueff = 3.2 eV for the d-states of V atoms suggested by the previous literature. (32) We also tested the different Ueff value (33) (2.0 eV) and we found that using different Ueff value has little effect on our calculated reaction barrier, reaction energy, H adsorption energy, and V atom Bader Charge value (Tables S8S10). The valence wave functions were expanded by plane wave with a cutoff energy of 400 eV. The atomic core was described by the Projected Augmented Wave (PAW) pseudopotentials. (34) The slab model of the γ-Al2O3(100) contained a (1 × 2) surface unit cell with two AlOAl layers. (35) The slab V2O5(001) model was simulated by a two-layer (1 × 2) surface unit cell. The V2O3(0001) model was simulated by a three-layer (2 × 2) surface unit cell. During the geometry optimization, the whole slab together with the adsorbate were relaxed. A vacuum gap of 15 Å was implemented in order to avoid the interactions between slabs. Brillouin zone was sampled by MonkhorstPack division scheme. A 3 × 3 × 1 k-points grid was tested to the convergence with the criterion of H atom adsorption energy variation smaller than 0.1 eV. All the structures were optimized until the force on each atom was less than 0.02 eV Å1.
The adsorption energies were calculated based on the following equation:
(1)
where Eadsorbate+surface refers to the total energy of the slab with the adsorbate while Esurface denotes the clean slab. We utilize gas phase total energy of the adsorbate as a reference, which is defined as Egas. When modeling the gas phase molecule, we adapted the cubic unit cell with 15 Å side length. The Brillouin zone sampling was restricted to the gamma point. All the other parameters are the same as the periodic slab calculation.
The transition states were located by the climbing-image nudged elastic band method. (36) The activation barrier was defined as the difference in energy between the preceding lowest energy intermediate EIS and the transition state ETS:
(2)
In addition, the vibrational normal-mode analysis was used to confirm the saddle point with only one imaginary frequency, and the imaginary frequencies, which are smaller than 60 cm1 and are believed to be caused by numerical errors, are ignored.
The surface oxygen p-band center (εp) was calculated by the following equation according to the previous literature: (37)
(3)
where ρup and ρdown represent the density of spin-up and spin-down states, respectively. The E refers to the energy of state.
Formation Energy of VnOm/Al2O3
In order to investigate the stability of the different supported vanadium oxide models at different V loadings, we calculated the formation energy of VnOm/Al2O3 according to the previous work: (11)
(4)
The V atom surface density of supported vanadium oxides was calculated by eq 5.
(5)
where A is the surface area of the (4 × 2) γ-Al2O3(100) slab.
Catalyst Models
With the variance of vanadium loading, the degree of polymerization (e.g., monomeric, polymeric and crystalline vanadium oxides species) can greatly changed. Herein, we considered three kinds of vanadium oxide models: monomer, dimer, and V2O5(001) slab, representing the monomeric, polymeric, and crystalline vanadium oxides, respectively. For low polymeric supported VOx structures, we utilized the most commonly accepted tetrahedral structure, (38) which was shown as structures I and III in Figure 1. As we can see, for both monomer and dimer structures, each V atom possesses 3 bridging VOAl bonds as well as one terminal oxygen (VO). As for the V2O5 nanoparticles, the 2-layer V2O5(001) slab was established to present the square pyramid crystalline V2O5, shown as the structure V in Figure 1. In our previous study, we found that when directly contacting with propane, the vanadium oxides tended to lose top oxygen in a very short time (both for 6 VAl2O3 and for 12 VAl2O3 samples). (39) In addition, other researchers also suggested that terminal oxygen (VO) was easier to lose than bridging AlOV oxygen. (1,40) Hence, we also considered the models without the top oxygen (II and IV in Figure 1). In terms of the reduced crystalline nanoparticles, we utilized the most commonly studied corundum-phase model to simulate bulk phase crystalline V2O3. According to the former literature, (41) in the oxygen poor condition, in the (0001) direction, a V-terminated surface was exposed, as shown in Figure 1 (structure VI). We used 3 layers and a 2*2 model to simulate this surface.
Figure 1
Figure 1. Structures of γ-Al2O3(100) supported vanadium oxides: (I) supported monomeric VO3/Al2O3; (II) supported monomeric VO2/Al2O3 losing top oxygen (III) supported dimeric V2O5/Al2O3; (IV) supported dimeric V2O3/Al2O3 losing top oxygen; (V) slab V2O5(001) surface; (VI) slab V2O3(0001) surface. Color schemes: V, gray; Al, green; O, red.
Stability of the Supported Vanadium Oxides under Different Vanadium Loadings
When we investigate the catalytic properties, it is essential for us to compare the relative stability between the monomer and dimer VnOm clusters. Noting that the loading of vanadium has a remarkable effect on the polymerization of the vanadium oxide, (4244) we adopted (4 × 2) periodic surface of the γ-Al2O3(100) on which we added 28 monomeric vanadium clusters (structures I and II) or 14 dimeric vanadium clusters (structures III and IV) to represent different V atom coverage. The percentage of V atom coverage is defined as the number of V atom occupation sites relative to eight available sites. As depicted in Figure 2, the different V atom coverages correspond to different vanadium loadings. Under the same coverage, different vanadium oxide dispersions were considered (Figures S8S11). We have chosen the dispersion with minimum formation energy value EfVnOm. As we can see in Figure 3, for all three different V loading circumstances (1/4, 1/2, and 1 ML), the structures with terminal oxygen (structures I and III) are more stable than the structures without terminal oxygen (structures II and IV). Under 1/4 ML coverage, structure I (VO3/Al2O3) is the most stable species with the smallest formation energy. With the increase of the V coverage, structure III (V2O5/Al2O3) has become more stable compared with structure I (VO3/Al2O3), indicating that with the increase of vanadium loading, the dimeric model gradually takes the dominant place. These findings are consistent with the experiment that monomeric vanadium oxide tends to polymerize with the increase of vanadium loading. (7)
Figure 2
Figure 2. Different terminations (structures IIV) of vanadium oxides with different V atom coverages: 1/4, 1/2, and 1 ML. The percentage of V atom coverage is defined as the number of V atom occupation sites relative to eight full occupation sites on the (4 × 2) Al2O3(100) surface. The V atom densities can also be calculated using eq 5.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Formation energy of various VnOm clusters adsorbed on the (4 × 2) γ-Al2O3 (100). Different V atom coverages were considered, mainly (a) 1/4 ML; (b) 1/2 ML; (c) 1 ML.
Reaction Network
As shown in Scheme 1, propene formation results from two sequential dehydrogenation reactions (A* denotes that A is adsorbed on surface (20,45,46)). In terms of the side reaction, CH3CO*CH3 (adsorbed acetone) is the main intermediate involved in the side products of ODH reactions. (22,26) Nonselective combustion forming COx results from the deep oxidation of C3H6* and CH3CO*CH3. (47) Therefore, we took the side product (CH3CO*CH3) into consideration. Furthermore, because H2O is the ODH reaction product while H2 is the PDH reaction product (see the inset of Scheme 2), we also compared the H2O formation with H2 formation to investigate whether ODH or PDH take the dominant place.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Proposed Reaction Network of Propane Oxidative and Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Proposed Reaction Mechanism over Different Degree of Vanadium Polymerization in Different Periods of Reaction
2.2. Experimental Procedure
Catalyst Preparation
All the VOx/Al2O3 samples were prepared via the incipient wetness impregnation method with γ-Al2O3 (Adamas, 99.99%, SBET = 180 m2/g) serving as support. The impregnation was accomplished by dissolving NH4VO3 (99.0%, Tianjin Guangfu Technology Development Co. Ltd.) and oxalic acid (99.0%, Aladdin Industrial Corporation) [NH4VO3/oxalic acid = 0.5 (mole ratio)] in deionized water (2 mL/g Al2O3). After impregnation, the catalysts were dried at 90 C for 12 h and then calcined at 550 C for 2 h. The prepared catalysts VOx/Al2O3 were marked as mV-Al2O3, where m is the mass loading of vanadium atom.
Catalytic Reaction Tests
Reactivity tests were performed in a quartz fixed-bed reactor (8 mm ID) loaded with 500 mg catalysts (2040 mesh) mixed with 1 mL of quartz particles. Switching between propane and air flows was employed during tests. The bed temperature was typically 550 C and the samples were reduced using a mixed propane (4 mL/min) and in nitrogen (17 mL/min) gases for 20 min at 1.4 atm. The weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) of propane was about 1 h1. After the reducing period, the catalysts were reoxidized using air (15 mL/min) for 25 min. Exhaust streams were analyzed using an online GC (2060) equipped with a flame ionization detector (Chromosorb 102 column) and a thermal conductivity detector (Al2O3 Plot column).The propane conversion and product selectivity were calculated from eq 6 and eq 7, respectively
(6)
(7)
where i stands for different hydrocarbon products in exhaust gases, ni is the number of carbon atoms of component i, and Fi is the corresponding molar flow rate.
3. Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
3.1. Change of Products Distribution over Time on Stream
The GC-online experiments were conducted in order to study the change of product distribution over time on stream. According to our previous work, (7) the 1 V-Al2O3, 6 V-Al2O3, and 20 V-Al2O3 samples were synthesized representing the supported monomeric, polymeric, and crystalline vanadium oxides, respectively. As shown in Figure 4, the product distributions over all three catalyst samples showed a similar trend when contacting propane. Initially, the C3H6 selectivity and H2 selectivity were relatively low compared with the later circumstances with the time on stream. As time elapses, more and more C3H6 and H2 were observed while the signal of CO2 and H2O decreased. Finally, the C3H6 and H2 took the dominant place. In this case, we divide the reaction process into two parts: (1) the initial oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) dominant part which mainly produces CO2 and H2O (in the ODH dominant part, vanadium oxide will lose surface oxygen); (2) the subsequent nonoxidative dehydrogenation (PDH) dominant part which mainly produce C3H6 and H2 with the relatively stable surface oxygen.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Conversion and selectivity as a function of reaction time over (a) 1 V-Al2O3; (b) 6 V-Al2O3; (c) 20 V-Al2O3 samples at 550 C and 1 h1 WHSV propane. H2O/(H2O+H2) ratio as a function of reaction time over (d) 1 V-Al2O3; (e) 6 V-Al2O3; (f) 20 V-Al2O3 samples at 550 C and 1 h1 WHSV propane.
We take the 4, 6, and 14 min points as divider lines for ODH dominant and PDH dominant period over 1 V-Al2O3, 6 V-Al2O3, and 20 V-Al2O3 samples, respectively. As we can see, at the dividing point, there is no obvious CO2 formation and the H2O/(H2O+H2) ratios are less than 50% over all our three samples.
3.2. Initial ODH Dominant Period
Because a significant difference exists between the ODH dominant and PDH dominant period over catalysts with different V loading, it is imperative for us to further investigate the reaction mechanism and the active sites of the two periods. The calculated propane dehydrogenation energy profiles over monomeric (structure I), polymeric (structure III), and crystalline (structure V) vanadium oxides are shown in Figure 5. The transition states of first step H rupture and second step H rupture forming C3H6* and CH3CO*CH3 (the precursor of CO2 formation which has been illustrated in the reaction network part in section 2.1) have been shown in the Figure 5. Over our monomeric (structure I) and dimeric (structure III) vanadium oxide models, the H rupture of C3H8* can happen on both VO site and VOAl site. Over crystalline structure (structure V), the H rupture of C3H8* can occur on the VO site and VOV site.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Reaction energy profile of C3H6* formation and CH3COCH3* formation by two successive H ruptures of C3H8* over (a) structure I; (b) structure III; (c) structure V. The structures of transition states and adsorbed C3H6* have been shown in the diagram. The black line denotes the CH rupture by VO bond while the red line denotes the CH rupture by VOAl (or by VOV bond). The blue line denotes the CH3CO*CH3 formation catalyzed by VO bond. The structures of transition states and adsorbed C3H6* have been shown in the diagram. Color scheme: V, gray; Al, green; O, red; C, gray; H white.
In terms of the monomeric vanadium oxides, i.e., structure I (Figure 5a), both AlOV and VO sites are highly active for the first CH bond activation with the energy barrier less than 0.15 eV. However, the second CH bond cleavage barriers are so high (1.77 eV for VO and 1.78 for VOAl) that the formation of C3H6* is relatively difficult. The high activation barrier of second step dehydrogenation results from the strong adsorption of C3H7* on the surface oxygen of structure I. Interestingly, the CH3CO*CH3 formation (adsorbed acetone) is easier compared with the C3H6* formation. As shown in the blue line in Figure 5a, the CH3CO*CH3 formation barrier is only 0.92 eV, which is lower than the C3H6* formation barriers of second H rupture by VO site or VOAl site. Since CH3CO*CH3 is the key intermediate of CO2 formation, the easier CH3CO*CH3 formation contributes to the appearance of CO2 in the initial stage over our 1 V-Al2O3 sample (Figure 4a), our mass spectrometer (MS) also detected the CO2 formation in the initial stage over 1 V-Al2O3 sample (Figure S13 in Supporting Information).
The low propane activation barrier (C3H8*  C3H7*+H*) also makes the monomeric vanadium oxides show extraordinary performance in methane activation reactions. (48,49) Indeed, we also found that the structure I can catalyze CH bond rupture on CH4 with a mere 0.22 eV barrier (Figure S12).
In terms of the dimeric vanadium oxides (structure III), the first dehydrogenation barrier of C3H8 is around 1.5 eV, much higher than the monomeric case. Similar favored formation of CH3CO*CH3 has also been observed, whose barrier is 0.5 eV lower than the C3H6* formation from C3H7* (Figure 5b). Moreover, the formation of CH3CO*CH3 is also thermodynamically less endothermic than the C3H6 formation. Thus, the formation of CH3CO*CH3 over dimeric vanadium oxides is more favorable from both a kinetic and thermodynamic perspective, which is consistent with the fact that the CO2 formation was also observed in the initial ODH dominant period for our 6 V-Al2O3 sample (Figure 4b).
A similar circumstance occurred on crystalline vanadium oxide (structure V), as we can see in Figure 5c: the relative energy of the transition state of C3H6* formation (on both VO site and VOV site) is higher than that of CH3CO*CH3 formation on the VO site. In addition, the reaction energy of CH3CO*CH3 formation is exothermic. In contrast, the C3H6* formation on the VO site and the VOV site is an endothermic reaction. All these illustrate that CH3CO*CH3 formation is easier than C3H6* formation on the V2O5(001) surface (especially on the VO site), which is consistent with the experimental results that much CO2 product was found in the initial stage (Figure 4c).
In addition, to probe whether the ODH reaction or PDH reaction takes the dominant place over structures I, III, and V, we compared the H2 formation path (2OH*  H2*) and the H2O formation path [2OH*  H2O* + Vo (the oxygen vacancy on vanadium oxide)], where H2O is the product of ODH process and H2 is the product of PDH process. (50) As shown in Figure 6, over structures I, III, and V, H2O is always easier to form than H2 (with lower activation barrier), which is consistent with our experiments that over 1 V-Al2O3, 6 V-Al2O3, and 20 V-Al2O3 samples, H2O was found in the initial stage (Figure 4df). In addition, we found that the VO over structures I and III is easier to lose by forming H2O compared with VOAl due to its lower barrier (Figure 6a,b).
Figure 6
Figure 6. Reaction energy profiles of H2 formation and H2O formation over (a) structure I; (b) structure III; and (c) structure V. Color scheme: V, gray; Al, green; O, red; H white.
3.3. Structural Changes of 1 V-Al2O3, 6 V-Al2O3, and 20 V-Al2O3 Samples
As shown in GC results (Figure 4), CO2 and H2O signals faded away while more H2 and C3H6 were observed with time elapsing. There must be some changes relating to the active sites that can account for the changes of the product distribution. To further probe the structural changes of vanadium oxides, the evolution process of 1 V-Al2O3 and 6 V-Al2O3 samples under C3H8 atmosphere was studied by in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS). According to previous studies, (51,52) the band at 2040 cm1 is attributed to VO of the vanadium oxides. It was found that over both 1 V-Al2O3 sample and 6 V-Al2O3 sample, the negative band is observed at 2040 cm1 upon reduction by C3H8, indicating that the VO bond was consumed (Figure 7 in this study and Figure 3b in ref (39)). Therefore, we utilized the structure II and IV to represent the catalytic surface of 1 V-Al2O3 and 6 V-Al2O3 samples under PDH dominant periods, respectively.
Figure 7
Figure 7. DRIFTS profiles of 1 V-Al2O3 catalyst treated at 600  under a 28% C3H8/Ar (20 mL/min) flow for different time.
Considering the phase transform of 20 V-Al2O3 sample, we conducted the X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) analysis and we found a continuous phase variation from V2O5 phase to V2O3 phase due to the induction by lattice evolution under propane stream. As shown in Figure 8, all the V2O5 phase transform to V2O3 phase in 10 min. In this case, we established the structure VI to represent the crystalline V2O3 surface.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Ex situ XRD spectra over 20 V-Al2O3 samples under 1 h1 WHSV propane flow for 0 and 10 min. Phase variation from V2O5 to V2O3 was observed due to the induction by lattice evolution under propane stream.
3.4. Subsequent PDH Dominant Period
Since the vanadium oxides are easier to lose the top oxygen (VO) by forming H2O than to lose bridge oxygen (VOAl) and our DRIFTS experiments also found that the VO bond can be consumed in very short of time (5 min over 1 V-Al2O3 sample and 1 min over 6 V-Al2O3 sample). We further conducted propane dehydrogenation calculations on reduced VOx catalyst, i.e. without VO oxygen (structure II, IV, in Figure 1). In terms of the 20 V-Al2O3 sample, we used the V2O3(0001) surface as our model because we observed that the V2O3 phase took the dominant place after 10 min under reduction condition in our XRD pattern.
We compared the C3H6* formation and CH3CO*CH3 formation over structures II, IV, and VI. As shown in Figure 9a, the CH3COCH3* formation step over the structure II has higher activation barrier and reaction energy than that of C3H6* formation. The desorption of C3H6* is easy since the desorption energy is lower than 0.1 eV. The C3H6 formation tendency is consistent with high C3H6 selectivity over 1 V-Al2O3 catalyst in the PDH dominant period in our experiments (Figure 4a). In terms of the structure IV (Figure 9b), although the second H rupture on unsaturated V required higher activation energy to form C3H6* than to form CH3CO*CH3, the AlOV site can catalyze C3H6* formation with a 0.15 eV lower barrier than CH3CO*CH3 formation, and the second H abstraction step (C3H7*+H*  C3H6*+2H*) is exothermic. The same is true of the structure VI, as shown in Figure 9c: the CH3CO*CH3 formation is strongly endothermic, the reaction energy of which is 0.2 eV higher than the reaction energy of C3H6* formation. In summary, over structures II, IV, and VI, the formation of C3H6* is easier than CH3CO*CH3 formation, which is consistent with the higher C3H6 selectivity in the PDH dominant period than in the ODH dominant period over 1 V-Al2O3, 6 V-Al2O3, and 20 V-Al2O3 samples.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Reaction energy profile of C3H6* formation and CH3COCH3* formation by two successive H ruptures of C3H8* over (a) structure II; (b) structure IV; (c) structure VI. The blue line denotes the CH3CO*CH3 formation catalyzed by the VO bond. The structures of transition states and adsorbed C3H6* have been shown in the diagram. Color scheme: V, gray; Al, green; O, red; C, gray; H white.
We also compared the H2 formation and H2O formation over the structures II, IV, and VI and we observed that the H2 formation is easier than H2O formation over structures II, IV, and VI (Figure 10). This is also consistent with the experiment in which no conspicuous H2O was observed in the PDH dominant period over 1 V-Al2O3, 6 V-Al2O3, and 20 V-Al2O3 samples.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Reaction energy profiles of H2 formation and H2O formation over (a) structure II; (b) structure IV; and (c) structure VI. Color scheme: V, gray; Al, green; O, red; H white.
3.5. Electronic Effects for Different Vanadium Oxide Structures
In order to gain an insightful understanding of the structureperformance relationships of vanadium oxides, the electronic structures of the model catalysts were analyzed. Due to the CH bond rupture by surface oxygen along with the electron transfer from H atom to surface O atom, the electronic structure of surface oxygen can influence its activity enormously. Thus, we calculated the p-band centers of oxygen sites (including VO, VOAl, and VOV) of all our structures in Figure 1, and we observed a negative correlation between the p-band centers of surface oxygen atoms and first H rupture activation barriers (Figure 11a). Based on the rigid band model, the processes of O reduction correspond to moving electrons from Fermi level to O p-band. (37,53) In the CH activation process, the electron from H atom can move to the p-band of the surface oxygen (as shown in Table S7, the Bader Charge value of surface oxygen become more negative after depriving the H atom). In this case, the location of p-band can greatly influence O atoms affinity of electrons (the lower p-band location corresponds to the higher electron occupancy, which in turn induce less electrons affinity owing to Pauli exclusion principle). Norskov and co-workers also used the simple two-level quantum coupling problem to shed light on the physical origin of the relationship between the p-band center (εp) of surface oxygen and the H atom binding energy. (54) The lower-lying p-band center corresponds to strong metaloxygen bonds which in turn make the surface oxygen inert for binding H atom. As we know, the H atom binding energy can also serve as a simple descriptor for activation barrier of CH bond cleavage reactions. (55) Therefore, it is reasonable to correlate the p-band center of surface oxygen with CH cleavage barrier (Ea). The extraordinary CH bond rupture ability of monomeric vanadium oxide (structure I) results from the high surface oxygen activity in that the p-band center of surface oxygens (VO and VOAl) over structure I are very close to the Fermi level indicating the good electrons affinity.
Figure 11
Figure 11. (a) Correlation between p-band center of surface oxygen and the first step dehydrogenation (C3H8*  C3H7*+H*) barrier over each O site. (b) Correlation between the H adsorption energy and first step dehydrogenation barrier. (c) Correlation between Bader Charge value of V atom and H adsorption energy.
Interestingly, when the terminal oxygen is gone, the chemical environment of vanadium can change, which may lead to the formation of coordinatively unsaturated vanadium atoms. As we know, the coordinatively unsaturated metal atoms are generally active for surface reaction over both pure metal catalysts (56,57) and metal oxide catalysts. (58,59) In order to describe the CH bond rupture capability of the vanadium atom, we utilize the H chemical adsorption energy, suggested to be the descriptor of CH rupture activity, (55) to represent its CH bond activation activity. As shown in Figure 11b, the H adsorption energy indeed correlates well with CH bond activation energy over all our vanadium oxide structures, including both O sites and V sites.
Moreover, our calculation indicates that the vanadium chemical environments have a direct impact on the dehydrogenation ability. As illustrated in Figure 11c, the Bader charge value has a positive linear relationship with the H adsorption energy, which is the descriptor for the CH bond activation ability. Over the dimeric vanadium oxides (structure IV), the coordinatively unsaturated vanadium atoms have the lowest oxidation state, i.e., lowest Bader Charge value compared with other models. Thus, it can catalyze CH rupture with the first CH activation barrier of 1.21 eV. In terms of slab V2O5(001), although the vanadium also can lose terminal oxygen, the terminal oxygen from the subsurface layer will bind with the vanadium atoms in surface layer which lose VO; thus, the oxidation state of surface V atoms is still high, i.e., with a high Bader Charge value (1.9). Therefore, it leads to V site binding H too weakly, and CH dissociation cannot occur on the V site of partially reduced V2O5(001).
4. Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In summary, we have systematically investigated the structureperformance relationships of different polymerizations of the vanadium oxides (namely, monomer, dimer, and crystalline structures) in propane dehydrogenation reactions using DFT calculations in conjunction with experimental studies. We can draw the following conclusions:
1. Over γ-Al2O3 supported vanadium oxides, the propane dehydrogenation reaction can be divided into two periods: the initial ODH dominant period and the subsequent PDH dominant period. The VO of all three structures (I, III, IV) contributes to the H2O and CH3CO*CH3 formation and takes the dominant role in the ODH dominant period. With the loss of VO, PDH commence to take the dominant place. Over monomeric vanadium oxide (structure II), AlOV is active. Over dimeric vanadium oxide (structure IV), the AlOV and coordinatively unsaturated vanadium atom are active sites, whereas over crystalline vanadium oxide (structure VI), O3 (three-coordinate surface oxygen) acts as an active site, while the vanadium atoms are inert.
2. The electronic structure analysis illustrates that surface oxygen with p-band center adjacent to Fermi level and unsaturated vanadium atoms are active sites for CH bond breakage.
Our work illuminates the nature of the active sites for vanadium oxides with different degrees of polymerization and facilitates the design of vanadium oxides in the future.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 