 Here are the relevant quotes and answers:

<quotes>

1. To achieve this goal, we have carried out one-pot synthesis of Pt-MFI materials. The starting hypothesis was that the template molecules (TPA+OH) will occupy the intersectional voids, hence limiting the access of Pt species to this position. Considering the larger space in the sinusoidal channels versus the straight channels, Pt species may preferentially be located in the sinusoidal channels. 

2. No relevant quotes

3. By using the newly developed iDPC technique, the atomic structure of the MFI zeolite can be recorded simultaneously with the HR HAADF-STEM image under low-dose conditions (Fig. 3b)22,23. As presented in Fig. 3d, the detailed structure of the MFI zeolite can be clearly identified in the iDPC image, even the 5R units in the framework. Since HR HAADF-STEM imaging is more sensitive to heavy elements (Pt in this work), and the structural information of the zeolite framework is finely captured by iDPC imaging, the precise location of subnanometric Pt clusters can be reliably identified by correlating the paired images.

4. No relevant quotes

5. By using the newly developed iDPC technique, the atomic structure of the MFI zeolite can be recorded simultaneously with the HR HAADF-STEM image under low-dose conditions (Fig. 3b)22,23. As presented in Fig. 3d, the detailed structure of the MFI zeolite can be clearly identified in the iDPC image, even the 5R units in the framework. Since HR HAADF-STEM imaging is more sensitive to heavy elements (Pt in this work), and the structural information of the zeolite framework is finely captured by iDPC imaging, the precise location of subnanometric Pt clusters can be reliably identified by correlating the paired images. The results demonstrate that Pt clusters of 0.4–0.6 nm are preferentially located in the sinusoidal channels (see more images in Supplementary Figs. 18–22). The location of Pt clusters has also been confirmed by STEM-iDPC imaging on a zeolite crystallite with the tilted-[010] orientation (see Fig. 3e–h), showing that the subnanometric Pt clusters overlap with the sinusoidal channels.

6. No relevant quotes

7. X-ray absorption experiments at the Pt (11,564eV) LIII and Sn (29,200eV) K edges were performed in the ALBA synchrotron41. The beam was monochromatized using Si(111) and (311) double crystals, respectively; harmonic rejection was performed using Rh-coated Si mirrors. 

8. No relevant quotes

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1. The article describes using template molecules (TPA+OH) to occupy the intersectional voids in the zeolite, limiting Pt species access to that position. The larger sinusoidal channels are preferential for localizing the Pt species compared to the straight channels.

2. No, the article does not evaluate isolated single atom sites. 

3. Yes, the article investigates using the newly developed integrated differential phase contrast (iDPC) imaging technique along with HAADF-STEM to optimize visualization of Pt cluster dispersion on the zeolite support.

4. No, the article does not utilize in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts.

5. Yes, the article employs HAADF-STEM paired with iDPC imaging to characterize the metal-support interface and locate subnanometric Pt clusters preferentially in the sinusoidal channels of the zeolite crystallites. 

6. No, the article does not evaluate different reactor types for propane dehydrogenation.

7. Yes, the article uses X-ray absorption spectroscopy at the Pt LIII and Sn K edges performed at the ALBA synchrotron to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis.

8. No, the article does not evaluate different reactor types for propane dehydrogenation.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1. 这篇文章描述了使用模板分子(TPA+OH)来占据分子筛中的交叉部位,限制Pt物种进入该位置。较大的正弦波通道优先用于定位Pt物种,而不是直通道。

2. 不,文章没有评估隔离的单原子位点。

3. 是的,文章调查了使用新开发的集成差分相对比(iDPC)成像技术与HAADF-STEM来优化Pt簇在分子筛载体上的分散可视化。

4. 不,文章没有利用原位表征技术来研究工作中的丙烷脱氢催化剂。

5. 是的,文章采用HAADF-STEM与iDPC成像技术来表征金属-载体界面,定位亚纳米Pt簇优先在分子筛结晶体的正弦波通道中。

6. 不,文章没有评估丙烷脱氢不同的反应器类型。 

7. 是的,文章使用在ALBA同步加速器进行的Pt LIII和Sn K边X射线吸收光谱来探测丙烷脱氢催化过程中的氧化态变化。

8. 不,文章没有评估丙烷脱氢不同的反应器类型。

</Chinese version answer>
