I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Regioselective generation and reactivity control of subnanometric platinum clusters in zeolites for high-temperature catalysis
Abstract
Subnanometric metal species (single atoms and clusters) have been demonstrated to be unique compared with their nanoparticulate counterparts. However, the poor stabilization of subnanometric metal species towards sintering at high temperature (>500C) under oxidative or reductive reaction conditions limits their catalytic application. Zeolites can serve as an ideal support to stabilize subnanometric metal catalysts, but it is challenging to localize subnanometric metal species on specific sites and modulate their reactivity. We have achieved a very high preference for localization of highly stable subnanometric Pt and PtSn clusters in the sinusoidal channels of purely siliceous MFI zeolite, as revealed by atomically resolved electron microscopy combining high-angle annular dark-field and integrated differential phase contrast imaging techniques. These catalysts show very high stability, selectivity and activity for the industrially important dehydrogenation of propane to form propylene. This stabilization strategy could be extended to other crystalline porous materials.
Main
One frontier in the synthesis of zeolites, and microporous materials more generally, consists in locating active sites in the desired framework or extraframework position1,2,3,4. For instance, in the case of zeolites containing pores and/or cavities of different dimensions, it is clear that locating the active sites selectively in one specific type of pore or cavity is a fundamental challenge with important implications for their catalytic application, due to differences in geometric and confinement effects. For instance, attempts have been reported to preferentially locate framework Al atoms in the intersectional sites or within the 10MR channels of ZSM-5 (MFI-type zeolite)5,6,7. However, when functional metals, such as Pt or Pd, have been introduced by including the metal precursor during the synthesis or through interzeolite transformations, nanoparticles of 12nm instead of subnanometric metal species (single atoms or clusters) have been obtained within the MFI zeolite8,9,10,11. As far as we know, the metal particles show random distribution within the zeolite crystallites. From the materials and catalysis point of view, the following challenges remain unsolved: (1) to generate stable subnanometric metal species within the zeolite crystallites, (2) to stabilize them regioselectively within the 10MR channels and (3) to achieve the above goals with purely siliceous MFI zeolite and to avoid the presence of acid sites in the final material. Note that if these three objectives were achieved a very regular distribution of metal clusters of about 0.5nm would be obtained, that is with the diameter of the 10MR channels, which would be highly stable against Ostwald ripening sintering, even at high temperature (>550C) under a reductive atmosphere12,13. This type of material should open new possibilities for a number of catalytic applications, including the very relevant activation of alkanes14,15,16,17.
It has been demonstrated that subnanometric Pt clusters show higher reactivity than Pt nanoparticles for propane dehydrogenation reaction18. However, when Pt clusters are supported on solid carriers with open structures, these Pt clusters may suffer fast deactivation, and the subsequent regenerationreaction cycles will lead to severe sintering of Pt. Therefore, if regular Pt clusters can be regioselectively generated within the 10MR channels of a purely siliceous MFI zeolite, the resultant catalyst should present not only high activity, but also an improved stability when working under high-temperature conditions.
To achieve this goal, we have carried out one-pot synthesis of Pt-MFI materials. The starting hypothesis was that the template molecules (TPA+OH) will occupy the intersectional voids, hence limiting the access of Pt species to this position. Considering the larger space in the sinusoidal channels versus the straight channels, Pt species may preferentially be located in the sinusoidal channels. A controllable amount of K+ is introduced to compensate the silanol groups, and to stabilize the subnanometric Pt species19,20,21. Finally, atomically dispersed Sn species can also be introduced to electronically modify the Pt clusters to increase propylene selectivity for the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
Encapsulation of Pt particles in MFI zeolite
As illustrated in Fig. 1a,b, by a one-pot synthesis strategy, Pt species can be encapsulated into purely siliceous MFI zeolite with a Pt loading of about 0.4wt% (Supplementary Table 1). All the Pt-zeolite materials with different chemical compositions show typical X-ray diffraction patterns of MFI zeolite (Supplementary Fig. 1). Interestingly, the presence of K+ within the synthesis mixture has significantly influenced the size of the encapsulated Pt species. As shown in Fig. 1c,d, Pt mainly exists as nanoparticles of 35nm in the K-free Pt@MFI sample (Supplementary Fig. 2), while subnanometric Pt clusters of about 0.40.7nm are the dominant species in the K-Pt@MFI sample (Supplementary Fig. 3). To investigate the role of K, we first characterized the as-synthesized, non-calcined, Pt-zeolite samples (K-Pt@MFI-SDA and Pt@MFI-SDA), obtained in the presence and absence of K, by electron microscopy. As shown in Supplementary Figs. 4 and 5, only atomically dispersed Pt species are detected in both as-synthesized samples, as confirmed by image simulation (Supplementary Fig. 6). Herein, to identify the location of Pt atoms in Pt@MFI-SDA and K-Pt@MFI-SDA, we have employed a combination of high-resolution high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HR HAADF-STEM) and integrated differential phase contrast (iDPC) imaging techniques to simultaneously visualize both Pt atoms and the zeolite structure with atomic resolution22,23. As shown in Supplementary Fig. 4, by correlating the HR HAADF-STEM and iDPC images, it can be deduced that most Pt atoms are located in the sinusoidal channels of the MFI zeolite structure, whereas a far smaller number are found in the straight pore channels or at the intersectional voids. This regioselective distribution of Pt species may be caused by the occupation of the intersectional voids by the template (TPA+), as well as by the availability of larger spaces in the sinusoidal channels compared with the straight channels (Supplementary Fig. 7)24,25,26. The characteristics of the location of Pt atoms described above are the same when the synthesis is carried out in the presence of K+ (K-Pt@MFI-SDA sample), indicating that K+ does not play a relevant role in the encapsulation of atomically dispersed Pt species during the hydrothermal synthesis. This conclusion is also confirmed from characterization by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (Supplementary Fig. 8 and Supplementary Table 2). A short-distance contribution at about 2.0Å can be ascribed to PtO/N bonding, while the contribution of PtPt bonding is not observed in either sample.
Fig. 1: One-pot synthesis of Pt-zeolite materials.
a,b, Schematic illustration of the formation process of Pt@MFI and K-Pt@MFI samples by one-pot synthesis. cf, STEM images of Pt-zeolite samples after reduction by H2 at 600C: K-free Pt-MFI (c), K-Pt@MFI (d), K-free PtSn@MFI (e) and K-PtSn@MFI (f). gj, The size distributions of Pt particles in different Pt-zeolite materials: K-free Pt-MFI (g), K-Pt@MFI (h), K-free PtSn@MFI (i) and K-PtSn@MFI (j). The average particle size is calculated according to d=Σnidi3/Σnidi2. ni stands for the number of the particle with a size of di.
Full size image
A subsequent calcination in air at 600C to remove the organic template in the as-synthesized Pt-MFI materials gives rise to the formation of Pt nanoparticles in the K-free Pt@MFI-air sample, indicating the migration and subsequent sintering of Pt (Supplementary Fig. 9). However, as presented in Supplementary Fig. 10, Pt remains atomically dispersed after calcination in air in the K-Pt@MFI-air sample. Interestingly, its location within the 10MR sinusoidal channels remains almost unchanged when compared with the as-synthesized K-Pt@MFI-SDA sample. A main contribution at about 2.0Å, corresponding to PtO bonding, is observed in the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectrum of the K-Pt@MFI-air sample (Supplementary Fig. 11 and Supplementary Table 3), while a typical PtPt bonding at about 2.7Å is observed in the K-free Pt@MFI-air sample. The results from STEM-iDPC imaging and X-ray absorption spectroscopy indicate that the role of K is related to the stabilization of Pt atoms during the calcination process, avoiding their sintering into Pt nanoparticles19,20.
As shown in Supplementary Fig. 12, the number of OH groups in the K-free Pt-zeolite samples measured by infrared spectroscopy decreased significantly after the introduction of K+ (ref. 27). A plausible explanation is that the OH groups in the K-free zeolite are replaced by OK+ species. Furthermore, the OK+ species can interact with the positively charged Pt species by forming stabilized OPt species during the high-temperature calcination in air. If the K+ in the K-Pt@MFI-air sample was exchanged for NH4+, Pt atoms sintered into Pt nanoparticles in the subsequent calcination at 600C in air and reduction treatment by H2 at 600C (Supplementary Fig. 13 and Supplementary Fig. 14).
Most interestingly, when the K-containing K-Pt@MFI-air sample was reduced in H2 at 600C, Pt atoms turned into subnanometric clusters, as shown in Fig. 1d. The low white-line intensity in the Pt L3-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectrum of the K-Pt@MFI sample (Fig. 2a) indicates the presence of metallic Pt after the H2 reduction treatment. The coordination number of first-shell PtPt (NPtPt) bonding for the K-Pt@MFI sample is about 6.6 (Table 1), corresponding to an average size of about 0.9nm (Fig. 1h)28. Considering that the average size of Pt clusters and Pt nanoparticles is about 0.55nm and about 2nm respectively, then about 80% of Pt atoms should be located in the internal space of MFI crystallites as subnanometric clusters while about 20% of Pt atoms exist as Pt nanoparticles (according to the following simple estimation: 80%×0.55+20%×20.85nm). In the case of the K-free Pt@MFI sample, the first-shell NPtPt is about 10.6, corresponding to an average size of 45nm, as shown in Fig. 1g.
Fig. 2: Characterization of Pt-zeolite materials by X-ray absorption spectroscopy.
a,b, XANES spectra (a) and EXAFS spectra (b) of the Pt L3-edge of different Pt-zeolite samples. c, Sn K-edge XANES spectra of the K-PtSn@MFI-air and K-PtSn@MFI samples. d, Sn K-edge EXAFS spectrum of the K-PtSn@MFI sample. All the samples are reduced in situ by H2 at 600C before the spectrum collection, except for the K-PtSn@MFI-air sample in c, which was measured directly without prereduction by H2. The Pt and Sn standard samples were also measured directly. μχ, absorption of X-ray by the sample.
Full size image
Table 1 Fit results for the Pt edge and Sn edge of EXAFS spectra of various Pt-zeolite materials
Full size table
Determination of the location of subnanometric Pt clusters
Considering the structure of MFI zeolite, one can expect that subnanometric encapsulated Pt clusters may distribute in different locations (including the straight channels, intersectional voids and sinusoidal channels). Therefore, we have analysed the HR HAADF-STEM results in further detail. For the K-Pt@MFI sample, as displayed in Fig. 3a,c, 0.40.6nm Pt clusters can be clearly observed as high-intensity areas along the [010] direction, while the 10MR straight channels appear as low-intensity pores. Corresponding HR HAADF-STEM images in greyscale are shown in Supplementary Fig. 17. However, due to the weak contrast of the zeolite framework and its sensitivity to the electron beam, the detailed structure of the MFI zeolite is not well revealed in the HR HAADF-STEM image. By using the newly developed iDPC technique, the atomic structure of the MFI zeolite can be recorded simultaneously with the HR HAADF-STEM image under low-dose conditions (Fig. 3b)22,23. As presented in Fig. 3d, the detailed structure of the MFI zeolite can be clearly identified in the iDPC image, even the 5R units in the framework. Since HR HAADF-STEM imaging is more sensitive to heavy elements (Pt in this work), and the structural information of the zeolite framework is finely captured by iDPC imaging, the precise location of subnanometric Pt clusters can be reliably identified by correlating the paired images. The results demonstrate that Pt clusters of 0.40.6nm are preferentially located in the sinusoidal channels (see more images in Supplementary Figs. 1822). The location of Pt clusters has also been confirmed by STEM-iDPC imaging on a zeolite crystallite with the tilted-[010] orientation (see Fig. 3eh), showing that the subnanometric Pt clusters overlap with the sinusoidal channels.
Fig. 3: Identification of the location of subnanometric Pt clusters within the MFI structure.
ad. Large-area and detailed HR HAADF-STEM image (a,c) and the iDPC image of the same area (b,d) of the K-Pt@MFI sample in the [010] orientation. eh, Large-area and detailed HAADF-STEM image (e,g) and the iDPC image of the same area (f,h) of the K-Pt@MFI sample in the tilted-[010] orientation. il, Large-area and detailed HR HAADF-STEM image (i,k) and the iDPC image of the same area (j,l) of the K-PtSn@MFI sample in the [010] orientation. mp, Large-area and detailed HAADF-STEM image (m,o) and the iDPC image of the same area (n,p) of the K-PtSn@MFI sample in the tilted-[010] orientation. In the HAADF-STEM images, subnanometric Pt clusters (0.5nm) are clearly imaged. In the corresponding iDPC images, the atomic structures of the MFI zeolite are also clearly revealed. By combining the images obtained in the two modes, we can identify the precise location of Pt species in the MFI zeolite, corresponding to the sinusoidal channels. q, Structural model of an MFI zeolite containing a single Pt atom, a single Sn atom, Pt clusters and Sn clusters in the sinusoidal channels along the [010] orientation. r, Simulated HAADF-STEM image of the model in q, showing the contrasts of the different types of metal species. s, Model of an MFI zeolite containing a single Pt atom, a single Sn atom, Pt clusters and Sn clusters along the tilted-[010] orientation. t, Simulated HAADF-STEM image of the model in s, showing the contrasts of the different types of metal species.
Full size image
Synthesis of bimetallic PtSn@MFI
Following the same synthesis procedure, a second metal component such as Sn can be introduced together with Pt. Similar to the situation observed before, after calcination in air, Pt species in the K-free PtSn@MFI sample agglomerate into nanoparticles (Supplementary Fig. 23) while the Pt species in the K-PtSn@MFI sample remain atomically dispersed (Supplementary Fig. 24), as in the as-synthesized K-PtSn@MFI-SDA sample (Supplementary Fig. 25). After reduction by H2 at 600C, large Pt nanoparticles are formed in the PtSn@MFI sample (Fig. 1e,i and Supplementary Fig. 26), while subnanometric Pt clusters (0.5nm) are formed in the K-PtSn@MFI sample (Fig. 1f,j and Supplementary Fig. 27).
According to the XANES results (Fig. 2a), Pt species also exist in the metallic state in the PtSn@MFI and K-PtSn@MFI samples. As shown in Fig. 2b and Table 1, the K-free PtSn@MFI has a first-shell NPtPt of about 10.7, corresponding to Pt nanoparticles of 45nm, while a first-shell NPtPt of about 6.4 is found for the K-PtSn@MFI sample, corresponding to an average size of about 0.9nm. These results further confirm the critical role of K+ in stabilizing subnanometric Pt species18,19,20.
Following the same approach, we have studied the location of subnanometric Pt and Sn species in the K-PtSn@MFI sample by paired HR HAADF-STEM (Supplementary Fig. 28 images in greyscale) and iDPC imaging. As can be seen in Fig. 3ip, subnanometric Pt and Sn species are also located in the 10MR sinusoidal channels of the MFI zeolite (see additional images in Supplementary Figs. 2933). The oxidation state of Sn in the unreduced K-PtSn@MFI-air sample is determined to be Sn IV. After reduction by H2, a decrease in the white-line intensity and a redshift of the spectrum is observed in the K-PtSn@MFI sample. As shown in Fig. 2c, the shape of the XANES spectra of the reduced K-PtSn@MFI does not resemble either Sn metal or SnO, suggesting a possible formation of SnO4x species. This can also be supported by the reduction in the first-shell intensity of FT (Fig. 2d), indicating the loss of neighbouring oxygen. The idea that Sn species are well dispersed within the K-PtSn@MFI sample is supported by the EXAFS spectrum, since no additional higher shells are observed. Furthermore, we have found that the EXAFS spectrum of K-PtSn@MFI is different from that of Sn-Beta, indicating that Sn exists as an extraframework species (Supplementary Fig. 35)29,30.
The interaction between Pt and Sn in the K-PtSn@MFI sample has been investigated by CO infrared spectroscopy. As can be seen in Supplementary Fig. 36, the CO adsorption bands at 1,887 and 1,719cm1 can only be observed in the K-PtSn@MFI sample, indicating that the introduction of Sn can modulate the electronic structure of Pt clusters. These bands are probably related to the formation of bimetallic PtSn species31.
As shown in Fig. 3qt, the simulated images with Pt or Sn clusters located in the sinusoidal channels are consistent with the experimental images. According to our simulation results (Supplementary Figs. 37 and 38), it is possible to differentiate single Pt and Sn atoms from the zeolite framework. Indeed, we have observed a few singly dispersed atoms (Pt or Sn) in both K-Sn@MFI and K-PtSn@MFI samples (Supplementary Figs. 39 and 40). Considering the average particle size obtained from the EXAFS results, the number of singly dispersed Pt atoms in the K-Pt@MFI and K-PtSn@MFI samples should be low and Pt should mainly exist as subnanometric clusters (Supplementary Fig. 41).
Determination of the Pt and Sn distributions in K-PtSn@MFI
As displayed in Fig. 4af, K, Sn and Pt are homogeneously distributed in the K-PtSn@MFI sample according to the X-ray energy dispersive spectroscopy (XEDS) mapping. However, due to the resolution limitation, it is not possible to determine the relative spatial relationship between Sn and Pt. To overcome the limitation of XEDS on such beam-sensitive samples, we have attempted, on the basis of the imaging simulation results (Supplementary Figs. 4244), to discriminate Pt and Sn distributions by a k-means clustering analysis of the HR HAADF-STEM images (see Supplementary Information for details). As shown in Fig. 4gi, subnanometric Pt and Sn species can be identified according to their different contrasts in the HR HAADF-STEM images. Then, in the image depicting the distribution of the Pt and Sn species (Fig. 4h) after k-means clustering, it is possible to pick out the Pt and Sn species that are in contact, simply by selecting those that fall at a distance shorter than 0.1nm in Fig. 4h. This distance threshold was selected on the basis of the first-shell SnO distance found in the EXAFS analysis. As a result, it is possible to estimate the presence of bimetallic PtSn clusters in the K-PtSn@MFI sample that are made up of two neighbouring Pt and Sn units rather than alloyed clusters, as shown in Fig. 4h. The statistical analysis shows that about 40% of the subnanometric metal clusters automatically detected in the experimental image of Fig. 4g fall at a distance below 0.1nm. It should be noted that this is a rough estimate, since the image analysis is based on two-dimensional projection images. This may result in an overestimation of the fraction of bimetallic clusters, since Pt and Sn at different depths may overlap in the STEM image. The complexity of the experimental images also makes it difficult to obtain an accurate percentage of the PtSn bimetallic clusters due to the difficulty of discriminating single Pt atoms and Sn clusters, as illustrated in Supplementary Figs. 42 and 43.
Fig. 4: Chemical analysis of the K-PtSn@MFI sample.
af, Elemental mapping of the K-PtSn@MFI sample, showing the homogeneous distributions of K, Sn and Pt in the zeolite crystallites. g, HR HAADF-STEM image of the K-PtSn@MFI sample along the tilted-[010] direction. The contrasts of the subnanometric particles are displayed in pseudocolour for improved visualization. h, Automatic identification of the subnanometric Pt (red) and Sn (green) species using segmentation by k-means clustering. The contrast information in the simulation results was taken into account. i, Location of Pt (red) and Sn (green) species with distance below 0.1nm, which may establish interaction between them. The statistical analysis shows that about 40% of the Pt clusters in this area are in contact with Sn species.
Full size image
Additionally, in the experimental HR HAADF-STEM images of the K-PtSn@MFI sample, we have found areas showing intensity profiles similar to those observed in simulation results (Supplementary Fig. 45). The formation of such a subnanometric PtSnOx interfacial structure can explain the absence of PtSn bonding in the EXAFS results, since Pt and Sn are not in the form of conventional PtSn alloy nanoparticles32,33,34,35.
Catalytic studies of Pt-zeolite materials
The dehydrogenation of propane to propylene was chosen as a model reaction to test the reactivity and stability of Pt particles or clusters encapsulated in pure-silica MFI zeolite. As can be seen in Fig. 5a, Pt@MFI was initially active but a fast deactivation was observed. Therefore, regeneration of the deactivated sample was carried out by a calcination treatment in air at 600C followed by a subsequent reduction by H2 at 600C. However, fast deactivation was still observed in the second and third cycles (Supplementary Figs. 46 and 47). Agglomeration of Pt nanoparticles was observed with the used Pt@MFI catalyst after three catalytic cycles (Supplementary Fig. 48). When Sn was introduced as a promotor, the resultant PtSn@MFI showed a significantly enhanced activity and selectivity (Fig. 5b), in consistence with previous works on supported PtSn catalysts36,37. However, the PtSn@MFI catalyst also suffered severe deactivation during the regenerationreaction cycles. As displayed in Supplementary Figs. 49 and 50, the PtSn@MFI catalyst only showed about one-third of its initial reactivity in the third cycle, which is caused by the sintering of Pt (Supplementary Fig. 51). Furthermore, a high initial activity was observed with the K-Pt@MFI sample, indicating the high reactivity of subnanometric Pt clusters (Fig. 5c). However, large quantities of cracking products (methane, ethylene and ethane) were formed, and the K-Pt@MFI catalyst also suffered a fast deactivation due to the coke formation. Interestingly, as demonstrated in Supplementary Figs. 5254, the reactivity of the deactivated K-Pt@MFI catalyst can be fully recovered by at least three cycles of calcinationreduction treatment, and the subnanometric Pt clusters remain stable during these processes.
Fig. 5: Catalytic performance of Pt-zeolite materials for propane dehydrogenation reaction.
ad, First reaction cycle for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with Pt@MFI (a), PtSn@MFI (b), K-Pt@MFI (c) and K-PtSn@MFI (d). In all the panels, the conversion of propane and selectivity to propylene are presented. The catalyst was reduced by H2 at 600C before the atmosphere was switched to reaction feed gas. Reaction conditions: 320mg Pt-zeolite catalyst, propane/N2 mixture as the feed gas (5mlmin1 of propane and 16mlmin1 of N2).
Full size image
According to the above results, by the combination of K and Sn, the reactivity and stability of Pt should be enhanced. Indeed, as shown in Fig. 5d, the K-PtSn@MFI sample shows high reactivity under the same reaction conditions as used before. More importantly, the selectivity to propylene at the initial stage is already quite high (90%) and the lifetime of the catalyst is significantly extended. It should be noted that the K-Sn@MFI sample without Pt is not active for this reaction, indicating that Sn only modulates the reactivity of Pt. The high catalytic performance of K-PtSn@MFI can be maintained for at least three reactionregeneration cycles without obvious deactivation (see Supplementary Figs. 55 and 56). The size and spatial location of the subnanometric Pt clusters are preserved after reaction, which is confirmed by EXAFS and electron microscopy characterizations (Supplementary Table 4 and Supplementary Figs. 5761). The Pt clusters in the K-PtSn@MFI sample remain subnanometric even after oxidationreduction treatment at 700C (Supplementary Figs. 62 and 63). The reactivity and recyclability of different Pt-zeolite catalysts has been compared in terms of initial turnover frequency, mass activity and deactivation rate (Supplementary Table 5 and Supplementary Figs. 64 and 65). These results clearly demonstrate that subnanometric PtSn clusters confined in the 10MR channels are a highly stable and selective catalyst for the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
For comparison, a reference K-PtSn/MFI sample with the same chemical composition as the K-PtSn@MFI sample was also prepared by conventional incipient wetness impregnation (Supplementary Fig. 66), containing well dispersed Pt particles of 0.41.2nm. The STEM-iDPC images show that Pt species appear in several types of position in the MFI zeolite, including the sinusoidal channels and straight channels as well as the intersectional void (Supplementary Figs. 67 and 68). As shown in Supplementary Figs. 69 and 70, the K-PtSn/MFI sample presented a fast deactivation during the propane dehydrogenation reaction, and its reactivity declined after each regeneration treatment. Large Pt nanoparticles are formed in the used K-PtSn/MFI catalyst after three catalytic cycles (Supplementary Fig. 71), indicating the advantage of K-PtSn@MFI catalyst with regioselective location of subnanometric Pt clusters in sinusoidal channels.
Outlook
The concept of regioselective localization of extraframework metal species demonstrated in this work can be extended to other crystalline porous materials, including both metalorganic frameworks and zeolites. Moreover, the use of two complementary STEM-based techniques (HR HAADF-STEM and iDPC) can be a general approach for studying the position of metal species in heterogeneous metal catalysts at atomic level.
Methods
One-pot synthesis of MFI zeolites with encapsulation of Pt
Synthesis of Pt@MFI material (Pt nanoparticles encapsulated in purely siliceous MFI)
Pt nanoparticles encapsulated in MFI zeolite were prepared by a one-pot synthesis. First, a tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH) solution was prepared by mixing 8.12g of K-free TPAOH solution (40wt%, from Alfa-Aesar, product code 17456.22) and 20.1g of distilled water at room temperature. Then, 8.24g tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) was hydrolysed with the TPAOH solution at room temperature for 6h under stirring (500r.p.m.). The resultant solution was divided into two parts with the same weight. To each portion of the solution, 80μl H2PtCl6 aqueous (0.38moll1) and 150μl of ethylenediamine were added with stirring for 10min. The resultant yellow solution was then transferred to Teflon-lined autoclaves and heated in an electric oven at 175C for 96h under static conditions. The amount of Pt in the final product is 0.43wt%. After the hydrothermal process, the solid product was isolated by filtration and washed with distilled water and acetone and then dried at 60C. Then the solid sample was calcined under an air flow at 560C for 8h and then at 600C for 2h.
Synthesis of PtSn@MFI material (PtSn nanoparticles encapsulated in purely siliceous MFI)
Bimetallic PtSn nanoparticles encapsulated in MFI zeolite were prepared by a one-pot synthesis. Firstly, a TPAOH solution was prepared by mixing 8.12g of K-free TPAOH (40wt%, from Alfa-Aesar, product code 17456.22) and 20.1g of distilled water at room temperature. Then, 8.24g TEOS was hydrolysed with TPAOH at room temperature for 6h under stirring (500r.p.m.). The resultant solution was divided into two parts of equal weight. To each portion of the solution, 80μl of aqueous H2PtCl6 (0.38moll1), 28mg of SnCl4 and 150μl of ethylenediamine were added with stirring for 10min. The resultant yellow solution was then transferred to Teflon-lined autoclaves and heated in an electric oven at 175C for 96h under static conditions. The amounts of Pt and Sn in the final product were 0.44wt% and 1.0wt%, respectively. After the hydrothermal process, the solid product was isolated by filtration and washed with distilled water and acetone and then dried at 60C. Then the solid sample was calcined under air flow at 560C for 8h and then at 600C for 2h.
Synthesis of K-Pt@MFI (K-promoted Pt clusters encapsulated in purely siliceous MFI)
K-promoted Pt clusters encapsulated in MFI zeolite were prepared by a one-pot synthesis. First, a TPAOH solution was prepared by mixing 5.0g of K-free TPAOH solution (40wt%, from Alfa-Aesar, product code 17456.22) and 6.24g of TPAOH solution (20wt%, from Sigma-Aldrich, containing 0.6wt% of K, product code 254533100G) and 17.0g of distilled water at room temperature. Then, 8.24g TEOS were hydrolysed with the TPAOH solution at room temperature for 6h under stirring (500r.p.m.). The resultant solution was divided into two parts of equal weight. To each portion of the solution, 80μl of aqueous H2PtCl6 (0.38moll1) and 150μl of ethylenediamine were added and stirred for 10min. The resultant yellow solution was then transferred to Teflon-lined autoclaves and heated in an electric oven at 175C for 96h under static conditions. The amounts of Pt and K in the final product were 0.42wt% and 0.6wt%, respectively. After the hydrothermal process, the solid product was isolated by filtration and washed with distilled water and acetone and then dried at 60C. Then the solid sample was calcined under air flow at 560C for 8h and then at 600C for 2h.
Synthesis of K-PtSn@MFI (K-promoted PtSn bimetallic clusters encapsulated in purely siliceous MFI)
K-promoted PtSn bimetallic clusters encapsulated in MFI zeolite were prepared by a one-pot synthesis. First, a TPAOH solution was prepared by mixing 5.0g K-free TPAOH solution (40wt%, from Alfa-Aesar without K, product code 17456.22) and 6.24g TPAOH (20wt% from Sigma-Aldrich, containing 0.6wt% of K, product code 254533100G) and 17.0g of distilled water at room temperature. Then, 8.24g TEOS was hydrolysed with the TPAOH solution at room temperature for 6h with stirring (500r.p.m.). The resultant solution was divided into two parts with equal weight. To each portion of the solution, 80μl of aqueous H2PtCl6 (0.38moll1), 50mg of SnCl4 5H2O and 150μl of ethylenediamine were added to the above solution and the mixture stirred for 10min. The resultant yellow solution was then transferred to Teflon-lined autoclaves and heated in an electric oven at 175C for 96h under static conditions. The amounts of Pt, Sn and K in the final product were 0.42wt%, 0.9wt% and 0.65wt%, respectively. After the hydrothermal process, the solid product was isolated by filtration and washed with distilled water and acetone and then dried at 60C. Then the solid sample was calcined under air flow at 560C for 8h and then at 600C for 2h.
Synthesis of K-PtSn/MFI by conventional incipient wetness impregnation
First, a K-promoted purely siliceous MFI support was prepared. 5.0g K-free TPAOH solution (40wt%, from Alfa-Aesar without K, product code 17456.22) and 6.24g TPAOH (20wt% from Sigma-Aldrich containing 0.6wt% of K, product code 254533100G) and 17.0g of distilled water at room temperature. Then, 8.24g TEOS were hydrolysed with the TPAOH solution at room temperature for 6h with stirring (500r.p.m.). The resultant solution was divided into two parts with equal weight and then transferred to Teflon-lined autoclaves and heated in an electric oven at 175C for 96h under static conditions. After the hydrothermal process, the solid product was isolated by filtration and washed with distilled water and acetone and then dried at 60C. Then the solid sample was calcined under air flow at 560C for 8h and then at 600C for 2h.
Taking this K-MFI as support, Pt and Sn together with ethylenediamine are introduced into the K-MFI support by conventional incipient wetness impregnation. The amounts of Pt and Sn are the same as for the K-PtSn@MFI sample prepared by one-pot synthesis.
Characterization
Powder X-ray diffraction was performed with a HTPhilips XPert MPD diffractometer equipped with a PW3050 goniometer using Cu Kα radiation and a multisampling handler.
Samples for electron microscopy studies were prepared by dropping the suspension of the solid samples in CH2Cl2 directly onto holey-carbon-coated copper grids. Electron microscopy measurements were performed using two types of microscope. A non-corrected JEOL 2100F microscope operating at 200kV in both transmission (TEM) and scanning transmission modes (STEM) was used to record HAADF, Z-contrast, images at low resolution. HR HAADF-STEM and STEM-iDPC imaging was performed on a double-aberration-corrected, monochromated, FEI Titan3 Themis 60300 microscope working at 300kV. The last technique, iDPC imaging, provides in this microscope atomically resolved images in which the contrasts are related to the atomic number of the elements under the beam, instead of the roughly Z2-dependent contrasts obtained in HAADF-STEM images. By using a four-segment detector, this technique allows imaging light elements, such as O, in the presence of heavier ones (Si, Z=14) under very low-electron-dose conditions, a key aspect in the atomic-scale structural analysis of zeolites, which are very sensitive to electron beams. In particular, 2048×2048 HAADFiDPC image pairs were recorded simultaneously using a convergence angle of 18.6 mrad and a camera length of 91mm. This configuration allowed us to optimize the collection of the signals on the HAADF and FEI DF4 detectors. To limit the damage by the electron beam, a fast image-recording protocol was used by combining a beam current of 30pA, a 2.5μs dwell time and an automated fine-tuning alignment of A1 and C1 using the OptiSTEM software. To obtain images with good quality, the beam current and image acquisition time should be optimized according to the stability of the sample under the beam.
The microscope was also used to perform chemical mapping at medium magnifications (approximately 100k to 200k) by STEM-XEDS using the high-efficiency SuperX G2 detection system equipped in the microscope, which integrates four windowless detectors surrounding the sample and high-performance signal-processing hardware. STEM-XEDS was used to map the spatial distribution of both metallic (Sn, Pt, K) and non-metallic elements (Si, O). For this nanoanalytical experiment, the beam current was increased to 100pA and the dwell time to 128μs to obtain a good signal-to-noise ratio. Then, the elemental maps were background subtracted and smoothed by 3 pixel×3 pixel averaging.
To determine the spatial distribution of the metallic species within the zeolite framework, a specific methodology for the digital analysis of the experimental images has been developed and coded in a home-made MATLAB script. First, to improve the signal-to-noise, the HR HAADF-STEM images were denoised by combining the Anscombe transform and undecimated wavelet transforms38. Then, a user-independent, fully automated, segmentation of image contrasts by clustering techniques (k-means method) was applied to recognize and classify the metallic entities, which is a requirement to guarantee statistically meaningful and unbiased results.
To support the k-means clustering analysis and interpretation of the details of the experimental images, HR HAADF-STEM image simulation was carried out using TEMSIM software39. The complex structural models used as input in these simulations were built using the Rhodius software developed at UCA40. To approach the experimental imaging conditions as closely as possible, a mixture of Poisson and white Gaussian noise was added to the simulated images. Then, the same methodology as used to analyse the experimental images was applied to the deliberately noise-corrupted simulated images.
X-ray absorption experiments at the Pt (11,564eV) LIII and Sn (29,200eV) K edges were performed in the ALBA synchrotron41. The beam was monochromatized using Si(111) and (311) double crystals, respectively; harmonic rejection was performed using Rh-coated Si mirrors. The spectra were collected in transmission (Pt LIII-edge) and fluorescence (Sn K-edge) modes by means of the ionization chambers filled with appropriate gases (Pt LIII edge, 95% N2+5% Kr for I0 (ionization chamber 0, located before the sample) and 17.1% N2+82.9% Kr for I1 (ionization chamber 1, located after the sample); Sn K edge, 89.4% N2+10.6% Kr for I0 and 100% Kr for I1) and a fluorescence solid-state detector. Samples in the form of self-supported pellets of optimized thickness were located inside an in-house-built multipurpose cell described by Guilera et al. allowing in situ experiments42. Several scans were acquired at each measurement step to ensure spectral reproducibility and good signal-to-noise ratio. The data reduction and extraction of the χ(k) function were performed using the Athena code43. EXAFS data analysis was performed using the Artemis software43. Phase and amplitudes were calculated with the FEFF6 code. The values of E0 (inflection point in the first derivative of XANES spectra) used for data alignment taken from the literature were the following: 29,200eV for Sn metal, 29,201eV for SnO, 29,204eV for SnO2 and 11,564eV for Pt metal.
Infrared spectra of adsorbed CO on Pt-zeolite and Sn-zeolite samples were recorded at room temperature with a Nexus 8700 FT infrared spectrometer using a deuterated triglycine sulphate detector acquiring at 4cm1 resolution. An infrared cell allowing in situ treatments in controlled atmospheres and temperatures from 25C to 500C was connected to a vacuum system with gas dosing facility. For infrared studies the samples were pressed into self-supported wafers and pretreated in H2 flow at 450C for 2h followed by vacuum treatment (105 mbar). After activation the samples were cooled to 25C under dynamic vacuum conditions followed by CO dosing at increasing pressure (0.48.5mbar). Infrared spectra were recorded after each dosage of CO.
The dispersion of Pt in Pt-zeolite materials was estimated from CO adsorption using the double-isotherm method on Quantachrome Autosorb-1C equipment44,45. Before adsorption, the samples (200300mg) were reduced in situ in flowing pure H2 (25mlmin1) at 600C for 1h with a ramp rate of 5Cmin1 from room temperature to 600C. After the reduction treatment, the samples were degassed at 1.33Pa for 2h at 600C and then cooled to about 40C. Then pure CO was admitted and the first adsorption isotherm (that is, the total CO uptake) was measured. After evacuation at 25C, the second isotherm (that is, the reversible CO uptake) was measured. The amount of chemisorbed CO was then obtained by subtracting the two isotherms. The pressure range studied was 0.511×104Pa. The dispersion of Pt (D) was calculated from the amount of irreversibly adsorbed CO assuming a stoichiometry of Pt/CO=1. The mean particle size (d) of Pt was determined from chemisorption data assuming spherical geometry for the metal particle according to the procedure. Equations used for calculation of metal dispersion and metal particle size are shown below.
D (%)=NmFsM×104/L
Nm: chemisorption uptake expressed in mol of CO per gram of sample
Fs: adsorption stoichiometry, which is 1 in our measurement
M: molecular weight of the supported metal (Pt)
L: loading of the supported metal.
d=6L/(SaZ×100)
Z: density of the supported metal (Pt)
Sa: active surface area (m2 per g metal) calculated from the following equation: Sa=NmFsAmNa
Am: cross-sectional area occupied by each active surface Pt atom
Na: Avogadros constant.
Catalytic studies of Pt-zeolite materials for propane dehydrogenation reactions
The dehydrogenation of propane to propylene was chosen as a model reaction to test the reactivity and stability of Pt particles or clusters encapsulated in pure-silica MFI zeolite. The reaction was performed with a fixed-bed reactor under atmospheric pressure using N2propane as feed gas at 600C. The products were analysed using a gas chromatograph that can detect cracking products (methane, ethene and ethane), propylene, C4, C5 and aromatics. Before reaction, the catalyst was reduced by H2 flow (35mlmin1) at 600C for 1h with a ramp rate of 10Cmin1 from room temperature to 600C. After the reduction pretreatment, the atmosphere was changed to reaction feed gas (5mlmin1 of propane and 16mlmin1 of N2 as balance gas). After the propane dehydrogenation test, the sample was cooled to about 100C and began to be regenerated by calcination in air at 600C for 2h with a ramp rate of 10Cmin1 from about 100C to 600C. After calcination in air, the sample was cooled to about 100C again and then reduced by H2 at 600C for 1h with a ramp rate of 10Cmin1 from about 100C to 600C before the second cycle of the propane dehydrogenation reaction. After the second cycle of propane dehydrogenation, the sample was cooled to about 100C and began to be regenerated by calcination in air at 600C for 2h with a ramp rate of 10Cmin1 from about 100C to 600C. After calcination in air, the sample was cooled to about 100C again and then reduced by H2 at 600C for 1h with a ramp rate of 10Cmin1 from about 100C to 600C before the third cycle of the propane dehydrogenation reaction.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 