<DOCUMENT>
A novel reverse flow reactor coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions: an experimental study
Abstract
A new reactor concept is studied for highly endothermic heterogeneously catalysed gas phase reactions at high temperatures with rapid but reversible catalyst deactivation. The reactor concept aims to achieve an indirect coupling of energy necessary for endothermic reactions and energy released by exothermic reactions, without mixing of the endothermic and exothermic reactants, in closed-loop reverse flow operation, i.e. with incorporation of regenerative heat exchange inside the reactor via periodic gas flow reversals. In a small laboratory scale reactor the concept of this ‘reaction coupling reverse flow reactor’ (RCRFR) has been investigated experimentally for the propane dehydrogenation coupled with methane combustion over a monolithic catalyst, aiming for a proof of principle.
Despite the inherently and inevitably large influences of radial heat losses on the axial temperature profiles in a laboratory scale reactor, as shown with some experiments with propane and methane combustion in reverse flow without propane dehydrogenation reaction steps, the experimental results show that indeed endothermic and exothermic reactions can be integrated inside the reactor together with recuperative heat exchange. The periodic steady state was easily obtained without any problems associated with process control. Furthermore, intermediate flushing with nitrogen between the propane dehydrogenation and methane combustion steps could be safely omitted. However, it was necessary to reduce the oxygen concentration during the methane combustion steps in order to avoid too high temperatures due to local combustion of carbonaceous products in the washcoat deposited during the preceding propane dehydrogenation reaction step.
Propane dehydrogenation experiments in a reactor filled entirely with active catalyst demonstrated the seriousness of ‘back-conversion’, a term used to indicate the loss of propane conversion due to propylene hydrogenation because of the low exit temperatures. Experiments performed in a reactor with inactive sections flanking the active catalyst section at both ends showed that the back-conversion could be effectively counteracted.
1. Introduction
For highly endothermic reactions at high temperatures with rapid but reversible catalyst deactivation a new multifunctional reactor is developed aiming for high-energy efficiency by integration inside the reactor of in situ energy supply, catalyst regeneration and recuperative heat exchange (i.e. heating the reactants by cooling the products). The reactor concept effectuates an indirect coupling between energy necessary for the endothermic reactions and energy released by exothermic reactions using the catalyst material as an intermediary energy store. During the endothermic reaction step energy is withdrawn from the catalyst cooling down the catalyst, while simultaneously the catalyst is deactivated. During a consecutive exothermic reaction step the catalyst is reheated and concurrently regenerated. Furthermore, the direction of the gas flow through the fixed catalyst bed is periodically reversed while the reactants are fed without any preheating, which allows integration of recuperative heat exchange inside the reactor.
Application of this reactor concept, here referred to as the ‘reaction coupling reverse flow reactor’ (RCRFR), is especially interesting for the non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation indirectly coupled with fuel combustion over a platinum-based monolithic catalyst, schematically depicted in Fig. 1. Due to the inherent fast switching between endothermic and exothermic reaction phases—because of energy constraints—fast catalyst regeneration is assured, which allows operation at more severe operating conditions, viz. higher temperatures and lower hydrogen concentrations resulting in higher equilibrium conversions and olefin selectivities.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. Schematic representation of the reaction coupling reverse flow reactor (RCRFR) concept for the catalytic non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation.
Catalyst regeneration by a reverse-flow procedure has been studied by many others, e.g. by de Groote, Froment, and Kobylinski (1996). With numerical simulations they studied the synthesis gas production from natural gas in a fixed-bed reactor in reverse flow to incorporate recuperative heat exchange. Although the considered reaction system consists of a combination of endothermic reactions (e.g. methane reforming) and exothermic reactions (e.g. methane total combustion), all the reactions of the overall slightly exothermic partial oxidation process take place in the reactor simultaneously, which is referred to as direct coupling (following Kulkarni & Dudukovic, 1996). In the reactor concept considered in this work an indirect coupling between the endothermic propane dehydrogenation and exothermic fuel combustion reactions in sequential process steps is aimed at, which allows tuning of the energy withdrawn from and released to the catalyst material with the volumetric gas flow rates and process step times.
Also the indirect coupling of endothermic and exothermic reactions has been studied by many others. For example, Seiler and Emig (1997) studied the modified steam iron process for hydrogen production from coal. They showed that an indirect coupling of the endothermic oxidation of Fe and exothermic reduction of FeO can best be achieved in a reverse flow switching scheme. Although an indirect coupling between endothermic and exothermic reactions is achieved, the considered reaction system consists of gas–solid reactions, where the ‘oxidation state’ of the catalyst corresponds to the ‘energy state’, i.e. amount of energy needed, c.q. available. The reaction system considered in this work, however, consists of heterogeneously catalysed gas phase reactions, where tuning of the reaction zones where energy is stored and withdrawn is crucial. Furthermore, Seiler and Emig did not include recuperative heat exchange in their process. Also Nieken and Watzenberger (1999) studied a gas–solid reaction system in the Deacon process for recycling HCl to chlorine.
Frauhammer, Eigenberger, Hippel, and Arntz (1999) investigated the indirect coupling of endothermic methane reforming reactions and exothermic methane combustion reactions including recuperative heat exchange. However, recuperative heat exchange was not incorporated via reverse flow operation, but they used a counter-currently operated fixed-bed reactor, which is only suited for a reaction system without catalyst deactivation in the endothermic reaction system. Furthermore, in Van Sint Annaland, Scholts, Kuipers, and van Swaaij (2002a) it is shown that the theoretical maximum energy efficiencies that can be achieved with a counter-current reactor for the propane dehydrogenation–methane combustion reaction system, as considered in this work, are lower.
Kolios and Eigenberger (1999) studied the styrene synthesis in a reverse flow reactor comparing different operation modes for the coupling of the endothermic ethylbenzene dehydrogenation and the exothermic hydrogen combustion. They showed that with the asymmetric operation mode, i.e. feeding ethylbenzene at one side of the fixed bed during the first semi-cycle and feeding hydrogen and air at the other side of the bed during the second semi-cycle, no satisfactory reactor performance could be obtained, which agrees well to the results presented by Kulkarni (1996) for the RE-GAS process for synthesis gas production via indirect coupling of the endothermic steam reforming and exothermic hydrocarbon combustion. Kolios and Eigenberger also studied the reactor performance for a symmetric operation mode, where the ethylbenzene feed was fed to one of the reactor ends and where air was introduced as a side-stream via a catalytic combustor in the centre of the reactor to supply the necessary process heat. In this operation mode the combustion gases dilute the products, which can only be overcome by using integrated membranes. Instead, in this work the symmetric operation mode is studied, where the endothermic and exothermic reactants are fed in two sequential process steps to the same reactor-end before switching the flow direction. With this operation mode dilution of the product stream with combustion gases can be avoided without using membranes.
The complete integration of energy exchange between sequential endothermic and exothermic process steps in reverse flow operation with recuperative heat exchange (indirect coupling in a ‘closed loop’ operation) has not been studied before and this is the topic of this work.
The reactor behaviour and energy constraints for the adiabatic RCRFR coupling the propane dehydrogenation and fuel combustion have been studied in detail by Van Sint Annaland et al. (2002a) and Van Sint Annaland, Scholts, Kuipers, and van Swaaij (2002b) using numerical simulations. In this work the feasibility of the reactor concept is tested experimentally. The main purpose of this experimental work is to present a proof of principle, i.e. to show with experiments that endothermic and exothermic reactions can be integrated inside the reactor with recuperative heat exchange. Secondly, with a preparatory experimental study some features of the reactor behaviour can be investigated experimentally and possible technical problems inherent to the reactor concept can be identified. Especially the following questions are important in this respect:
1.
Upon switching from the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction step to the exothermic combustion step or vice versa a propane–propylene–hydrogen mixture can come into contact with air, possibly giving rise to the formation of an explosive gas mixture. In Van Sint Annaland, Kuipers, and van Swaaij (2001a) it was investigated mainly theoretically that dangerous gas phase back-deflagrations could be excluded by the use of the reverse flow concept in a monolith. Can intermediate flushing with nitrogen between the propane dehydrogenation and fuel combustion reaction steps indeed be omitted in the RCRFR?
2.
In the RCRFR concept different reaction mixtures are fed to the catalyst bed while periodically the inlet and outlet positions are exchanged. Eventually, a periodic steady state is obtained for the axial temperature profile, which is completely determined by the chosen inlet conditions (inlet concentration and inlet gas velocity) and times for the reaction steps. Can this periodic steady state in the RCRFR be obtained easily without any difficulties associated with process control?
3.
The periodic flow reversals to incorporate recuperative heat exchange result in low temperatures at the reactor ends, while high temperatures prevail in the centre of the reactor. For reversible endothermic reactions, like the propane dehydrogenation reaction and most other industrially relevant reaction systems, the low exit temperatures can shift the equilibrium towards the reactants’ side, causing ‘back-conversion’ (i.e. propylene hydrogenation) at the reactor outlet. What is the extent of this back-conversion and can inactive sections or less active sections indeed reduce this back-conversion, as studied theoretically by Van Sint Annaland et al. (2002b)?
4.
During the endothermic propane dehydrogenation carbonaceous products are deposited on the catalyst surface, which are combusted during the exothermic fuel combustion cycle. Are the carbonaceous products deposited uniformly along the axial coordinate and can all the coke be combusted during the exothermic regeneration process step? What are the temperature effects of the coke combustion?
Because large-scale industrial reverse flow reactors operate almost adiabatically, it would be ideal to closely approach adiabatic operating conditions also in our laboratory scale reactor. From experimental work on reverse flow reactors it is well known that even very small heat losses can influence the axial temperature profiles enormously. In most experimental studies insulation has been applied to suppress radial heat losses, sometimes with additional electrical compensatory heating (see Van de Beld, 1995). However, the insulation material acts as an additional heat buffer and also the compensatory heating influences the process dynamics. A better way of minimising radial heat losses and influences of the surroundings is the use of an evacuated jacked, as applied by Neophytides and Froment (1992) and Van de Beld (1995) and Van de Beld and Westerterp (1996). However, at higher temperatures the contribution of heat losses due to radiation might be considerable, even when radiation shields are used. The best way of approaching adiabatic operating conditions is by increasing the reactor diameter, as also recognised by Blanks, Wittrig, and Peterson (1990).
In the RCRFR the Damköhler numbers of the endothermic and exothermic reaction cycles need to be matched in order to use the entire catalyst bed efficiently (Van Sint Annaland et al., 2002a). For the propane dehydrogenation—fuel combustion reaction system this leads to high gas velocities during the combustion reaction step compared to the gas velocity during the dehydrogenation step. Moreover, in order to minimise the influences of radial heat losses the throughput during the endothermic dehydrogenation step should be chosen as high as possible, resulting in very high throughputs during the combustion reaction step. Increasing the reactor diameter to suppress radial heat losses increases the throughput quadratically. Construction of a pilot scale RCRFR would, however, largely exceed the limited financial means of this project. For a laboratory scale RCRFR with a maximum air flow rate a compromise between the desired gas velocity during the endothermic reaction step and the desired reactor diameter need to be effected, so relatively large influences of radial heat losses need to be accepted, unfortunately. Nevertheless, a proof of principle and some important introductory experimental investigations can be conducted in a laboratory scale RCRFR. The optimisation of the reactor set-up, catalyst properties (e.g. platinum loading), operating conditions, reactant conversions and product selectivities and overall reaction coupling energy efficiencies was not included in this work.
Firstly, the experimental set-up and the reverse flow reactor are described. Subsequently, some experimental results of only methane or propane combustion performed in reverse flow mode without dehydrogenation steps are presented and discussed in order to investigate whether reported influences of operating conditions can actually be observed in the laboratory scale RCRFR in a qualitative sense. Finally, propane dehydrogenation experiments coupled with methane combustion are discussed answering the above listed questions.
2. Experimental
2.1. Experimental set-up
In Fig. 2 a schematic drawing of the fully automated experimental set-up is given. With Brooks’ mass flow controllers the composition of the reaction mixtures consisting of propane, hydrogen and nitrogen for the endothermic reaction step on the one hand and propane, methane, oxygen and nitrogen for the exothermic reaction step on the other hand can be set. With an electrical valve (EV1002) one of these reaction mixtures is fed to the reactor, while the other mixture is vented (optionally the mass flow controller set-points for the gases that are vented can be set to zero). The direction of the gas flow through the reactor, placed in horizontal position, can be reversed by switching two three-way valves (EV1003a+b), with the same pneumatic actuator to assure that the valves are switched simultaneously. Because of large differences in the flow rates between the endothermic and exothermic reaction cycles the reactor pressure is controlled by a back-pressure controller for small flows during the dehydrogenation cycles (PC1003) and by one for large flows during the combustion cycles (PC1004) via switching of an electrical valve (EV1005). The pressure at the reactor inlet (PI1001) and outlet (PI1002) were measured with electronic transducers. For safety reasons a pressure relieve valve was installed (with a maximum overpressure of
). Before an experiment is started the reactor is preheated up to temperatures of 600°C at maximum by feeding air preheated in an electrical gas heater (with a capacity of about
) via switching of electrical valve EV1004. When an experiment is started the gas heater is taken offline by switching valve EV1004 back. In order to protect downstream equipment, especially the valves, two water coolers (with a capacity of about
) have been positioned at the reactor inlet and outlet.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. Flowsheet of the RCRFR experimental set-up.
Part of the reactor effluent can be collected via valves EV1006 and EV1007 for analysis on a GC-TCD (Gas Chromatograph with a Thermal Conductivity Detector) or infrared analysers for CO and CO2. With the GC, containing a Chrompack PoraPLOT column (a
fused silica capillary column with a
washcoat) and a Molsieve packed column (5A 80–100 Mesh,
SS), the relative concentrations of nitrogen, propane, propylene, ethane, ethylene and methane can be determined, using helium (5.0) as carrier gas.
The set-up is completely automated and controlled by a Mitsubishi PLC (Programmable Logic Controller). The PLC continuously checks several parameters against alarm values, like the reactor pressure (HPSD1001), temperatures in the reactor (TIC1004-TIC1007), the temperatures at the reactor inlet and outlet (HTSD1001 and HTSD1002) to avoid gas phase back-deflagrations, and concentrations of the propane and methane in air to avoid feeding explosive gas mixtures. In case of an emergency the PLC will shut down the installation automatically and the electrical valves in the feed lines of hydrogen (EV201), propane (EV301) and methane (EV401) will be closed and the set-up will be purged with nitrogen. In the program environment ‘CITECT’ from Ci Technologies Pty. Limited an extensive interface for the PLC was programmed on a personal computer to monitor the set-up, to save important process values and to change operating conditions. The desired process conditions for an experiment (composition of reaction mixtures and the total flow rate, the times for the reaction steps and the flow direction per reaction step) can be changed in CITECT, which makes sure that the PLC takes care of the necessary actions.
The experimental procedure for a dehydrogenation experiment was as follows. Firstly, the reactor was preheated with air. Subsequently, an experiment with only methane or propane combustion in reverse flow was carried out in order to effectuate low temperatures at the reactor ends to avoid gas phase back deflagrations when switching to the dehydrogenation step. Furthermore, the centre of the reactor could be heated to even higher temperatures, if desired, using the fuel inlet concentration to control the maximum temperature. When the reactor inlet and outlet were sufficiently cooled and the centre of the reactor sufficiently heated, the dehydrogenation experiment was started. At the end of the dehydrogenation experiment, again an experiment of fuel combustion in reverse flow was carried out with relatively long forward and backward flow reaction step times, in order to ensure that all possibly accumulated coke deposits were removed.
2.2. Reverse flow reactor
A rectangular reactor was constructed of high temperature stainless steel to contain rectangular blocks of a cordierite monolithic catalyst. In Fig. 3 a schematic drawing of the reverse flow reactor is given. Monolith blocks with a cross-sectional area of
and
in length were supplied by Engelhard and consisted of squared channels with a hydraulic channel diameter of
, a channel wall thickness of
and an average alumina washcoat thickness of
(11–
), determined from SEM pictures. Two types of monoliths were used in the experiments, one with a platinum loading of
monolith dispersed in the γ-Al2O3 washcoat and one without platinum, referred to as the active and inactive monolith, respectively. The total length of the catalyst blocks in the reactor was
.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Schematic drawing of the reverse flow reactor.
In order to determine the axial and radial temperature profiles in the monolith, the reactor was constructed out of five parts connected with flanges. Through the flanges K-type thermocouples of
diameter could be led to the monolith blocks (see Fig. 4). The thermocouples were positioned at the desired position either parallel to the channels or perpendicular to the channels through small holes drilled in the monolith at different positions. About 45 thermocouples were used to determine the axial temperature profile in the innermost channels and 8 thermocouples were used to determine the ‘radial’ (i.e. perpendicular to the average gas flow direction) temperature profile at a fixed axial position (after
catalyst length). Ten additional thermocouples were used for control and safety purposes. All temperature data was collected at least twice every second by a program developed in Borland Delphi, running on a separate personal computer with five Advantech data-acquisition cards. Through a link between the data-acquisition cards and the PLC the time on stream during an experiment was synchronised.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Schematic drawing of a flange with thermocouple inlets to measure temperatures in the inner and outer part of the monolithic catalyst.
Due to the absence of radial mixing of the gas in a monolith the influence of the surroundings are largest on the outermost channels, protecting the innermost channels from radial heat losses to some extent. With small rings in the flanges it was assured that also between different catalyst blocks gas flowing through the innermost channels was not mixed with gas flowing through the outermost channels. It was experimentally verified that the radial temperature profile over the innermost channels is practically uniform (see Appendix A). The axial temperature profiles were detected in the innermost channels.
At the base of the conical reactor ends, both periodically acting as inlet and outlet, a metal porous plate was installed to distribute the gas flow evenly over the channels. Part of the gas effluent from the innermost channels could be collected for analysis via a small conduit.
For compensatory heating the reactor wall was wrapped with four separate electrical resistance wires placed under
, having a total heating capacity of about
. For control of the electrical resistance heaters the reactor wall temperature was measured with a thermocouple at four different axial positions (in the middle of the different sections). The set-points for the heaters could be set either to a constant value or to a temperature locally measured in the channels of the monolith. Finally, the reactor was insulated with a first layer of ceramic wool and a second layer of ceramic foam in a brick housing.
The extent of radial heat losses has been studied separately via interpretation of steady-state radial and axial temperature profiles from experiments with preheated air without methane or propane in the feed and without periodic flow reversals, as shortly described in Appendix A. The temperature profiles could be well described with a simplified two-dimensional model approximating the rectangular monolith blocks as cylinders and using constant effective heat conductivities for the catalyst (with air flowing through the channels) and insulation material (consisting of the reactor wall and the different layers of insulation materials), about 0.5 and
respectively. Using these estimates the overall heat transfer coefficient for the overall radial heat losses from the inner channels of the monolith (inner ring) could be estimated at 2–
. This overall radial heat transfer coefficient is only slightly higher than the heat transfer coefficient of about
in the reverse flow reactor of Van de Beld (1995), which had a much larger reactor diameter
and was equipped with an evacuated jacket. This demonstrates the effectiveness of using the absence of radial mixing in the monolithic catalyst to reduce radial heat losses.
3. Experimental results and discussion
3.1. Propane and methane combustion in reverse flow
Some influences of the operating conditions, like the process step time, mass flow rate and inlet concentration are shown in Fig. 5 for propane combustion and in Fig. 6 for methane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst. The gas inlet temperature was about 20°C and the inlet pressure depended on the flow rate (ca.
at
and almost
at
). The two electrical resistance heaters at the inlet and outlet were offline and the middle two heaters were set at 400°C and 550°C for the propane and methane combustion experiments, respectively. The heater temperatures were lower than the temperatures measured in the centre of the monolith, assuring net heat losses. The reproducibility of the experiments (after a complete start-up) was excellent (see Fig. 6d).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. (a) Influence of the process step time on the axial temperature profile at the end of the forward step in the periodic steady state for propane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst (xg,C3H8,in=0.2%,
). (b) Influence of the flow rate on the axial temperature profile at the end of the forward step in the periodic steady state for propane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst (xg,C3H8,in=0.2%,
). (c) Influence of the propane inlet mole fraction on the axial temperature profile at the end of the forward step in the periodic steady state for propane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst (
,
). (d) Influence of the heaters on the axial temperature profiles in the periodic steady state for propane combustion in reverse flow over an inactive monolith (
, xg,C3H8,in=0.26%,
).
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. (a) Influence of the process step time on the axial temperature profiles at the end of the forward step in the periodic steady state for methane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst (xg,CH4,in=0.5%,
). (b) Influence of the flow rate on the axial temperature profile at the end of the forward step in the periodic steady state for methane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst (xg,CH4,in=0.5%,
). (c) Influence of the methane inlet mole fraction on the axial temperature profile at the end of the forward step in the periodic steady state for methane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst (
,
). (d) Reproducibility test: axial temperature profiles in the periodic steady state for methane combustion in reverse flow over a monolithic catalyst (xg,CH4,in=0.5%,
,
).
The large influence of the process step times on the maximum temperatures in the periodic steady state (Fig. 5, Fig. 6) indicates the large influence of radial heat losses. In an adiabatic reactor the maximum temperature is independent of the process step time, as easily confirmed with model simulations and also shown experimentally by, e.g. Van de Beld (1995) for ethylene combustion in reverse flow with a low ethylene inlet concentration with a maximum temperature of only about 350°C, assuring relatively low radial heat losses. For the methane combustion experiments the maximum temperature of the temperature peaks is only slightly effected by the process step time, in contrast to the propane combustion experiments, where the maximum temperature of the temperature peaks increases considerably with longer process step times. Due to the longer process step times in the propane combustion experiments the temperature peak at the back end of the temperature plateau has decreased much more due to radial heat losses. Because of the much lower temperature of the temperature peak at the beginning of the process step the energy is released over a larger reaction zone resulting in a slower formation of the temperature peak. As a consequence, the temperature peak cannot reach its maximum value for the propane combustion within the process step time, despite the longer process step times.
Furthermore, the insulation material acts as an additional unsteady heat buffer. When the temperatures in the catalyst material are high, energy is transported to the insulation material, but before this energy is lost to the surroundings, it is partly returned to the catalyst when the heat front passes. The unsteady heat buffer effect of the insulation material can be clearly observed in Fig. 7 from the temperature increase at the reactor outlet just after reversing the flow direction. This figure also shows that the monolith temperature at the reactor inlet does not decrease immediately to the gas inlet temperature, when the flow is reversed mainly due to the heat capacity of the inlet section.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Axial catalyst temperature profiles (a) and the temperatures at the inlet and outlet of the monolith as a function of time (b) in the periodic steady state for propane combustion over a monolithic catalyst. (Operating conditions: xg,C3H8,in=0.2%,
,
).
The non-adiabatic reactor conditions also have an enormous impact on the experimentally observed plateau temperatures. Van de Beld (1995) reported that even for their reverse flow reactor with a three times larger diameter and an evacuated jacket to achieve a relatively low radial heat transfer coefficient the experimentally determined plateau temperature and the plateau temperature calculated for adiabatic conditions differed tremendously. When plateau temperatures for adiabatic conditions were calculated above 600°C, the experimentally determined temperatures were about 200°C lower and these differences were even larger at higher temperatures. However, the indentation of the temperature plateaux in Fig. 5, Fig. 6 are much less pronounced than anticipated on the basis of the estimated overall heat transfer coefficient, and additionally, the temperature peaks are located much further inwards towards the centre of the reactor. This can be explained by the radial temperature profile over the outer channels of monolith due to radial heat losses. Because of the lower temperatures in the outer channels the ignition of the combustion takes place further inside the reactor at larger distances from the reactor inlet compared to the position of the ignition in the inner channels, so that in the outer channels the temperature plateau is much smaller. Due to the delayed ignition in the outermost channels the heat losses from the inner channels are larger at the beginning of the heat front causing also the ignition in the inner channels to take place further inside the reactor compared to adiabatic conditions. However, at the end of the temperature front at the temperature plateau in the inner channels the radial heat losses are strongly reduced due to the delayed heat generation in the outer channels, resulting in a much smaller indentation of the temperature plateau. This is confirmed with experimentally observed influence of the compensatory heating system (assuring net heat losses) on the length of the temperature plateaux (see Fig. 5d). Because of the relatively high ignition temperatures compensatory heating was necessary to assure ignition in the outer channels and to avoid complete extinction, at least for short process step times.
Concluding, by the use of a monolithic catalyst radial heat losses are considerably reduced due to the absence of radial gas mixing in a monolithic catalyst avoiding levelling out of radial temperature differences. However, the influence of radial heat losses can only be completely avoided by conducting experiments in a reactor with a much larger reactor diameter.
Nevertheless, the influences of the mass flux and the inlet concentration on the maximum temperature in the periodic steady state, illustrated in Fig. 8, Fig. 9, correspond to the expected influences (see Appendix A of Van Sint Annaland et al., 2002a). The maximum temperature increases at higher gas flow rates, but reaches a maximum and becomes independent of the gas flow rate, when the effective pseudo-homogeneous axial conductivity is dominated by the contribution of effective axial heat transport in the gas phase. Thus, for industrial size reactors with high throughputs the maximum temperature is independent of the gas flow rate. Furthermore, the maximum temperature increases less than proportional with increasing methane inlet concentrations. This corresponds to the expected logarithmic increase of the maximum temperature for higher methane inlet concentrations, since the dimensionless maximum temperature θc,max increases virtually linearly with the exponent of the maximum temperature number Θ for a first-order reaction (definitions listed in the symbol list). Finally, from the experiments also the well-known ‘wrong-way behaviour’ of reverse flow reactors can be observed, i.e. lower maximum temperatures for faster reactions. The observed maximum temperature increases from 500°C to 600°C for propane combustion over an active monolith to 700–800°C for methane combustion over an active monolith to over 900°C for propane combustion over an inactive monolith for comparable adiabatic temperature increases.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. The maximum temperature in the periodic steady state and the calculated relative contribution of conduction in the catalyst material to the total effective pseudo-homogeneous axial conductivity λeff as a function of the gas mass flux for methane combustion in reverse flow (xg,CH4,in=0.5%,
, corresponding axial temperature profiles in Fig. 6b). The total effective pseudo-homogeneous axial conductivity is given by
.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. The maximum temperature in the periodic steady state as a function of the methane inlet mole fraction for methane combustion in reverse flow (
,
, corresponding axial temperature profiles in Fig. 6c).
3.2. Propane dehydrogenation coupled with methane combustion in reverse flow
Since radial heat losses determine to a large extent the shape of the axial temperature profiles in a small laboratory scale reverse flow reactor, it was not possible to experimentally validate the typical shape of axial temperature profiles occurring in a reverse flow reactor coupling endothermic and exothermic reactions for, for instance, different ratios of the endothermic and exothermic Damköhler numbers and for different switching schemes, as simulated by Van Sint Annaland et al. (2002a). For large Damköhler numbers of the exothermic reaction step compared to the Damköhler number of the endothermic reaction step simulations have shown that the plateau temperature strongly decreases and only two small high temperature peaks remain, rendering a large part of the reactor ineffective. Unfortunately, radial heat losses have a similar effect on the shape of the axial temperature profiles. Furthermore, for asymmetric switching schemes a slope in the plateau temperature was calculated, but this effect is completely overshadowed by the dominating effects of radial heat losses.
Nevertheless, from some introductory dehydrogenation experiments it could be concluded that a periodic steady state could easily be obtained without any problems associated with process control, generally within about two hours after starting the dehydrogenation experiment. Furthermore, intermediate flushing with nitrogen between the propane dehydrogenation and fuel combustion reaction steps could safely be omitted. However, to avoid too high temperatures during the fuel combustion reaction step it was necessary to dilute the methane/air mixture with nitrogen. In Fig. 10 axial temperature profiles in the periodic steady state are shown for dehydrogenation experiments conducted with different oxygen inlet concentrations during the methane combustion cycle. Although the axial temperature profiles at the end of the endothermic and exothermic steps in the periodic steady state were hardly altered if the oxygen inlet concentration was decreased, very high temperatures were observed at the beginning of the combustion reaction step, unless the oxygen concentration was less than about 5%. Temperature increases well above 300°C have been detected when air was used, severely damaging the catalyst. Since these high temperatures were also detected when the reactor was flushed with nitrogen between the dehydrogenation and combustion steps, effects of mixing of the endothermic and exothermic reactants and products (or combustion of adsorbed components) can be excluded and the high temperatures can only be attributed to the combustion of carbonaceous products formed as a side product during the dehydrogenation step. As soon as the oxygen supply was stopped, the high temperatures rapidly disappeared.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Effect of the oxygen inlet concentration on the axial temperature profiles during the forward methane combustion process step in the periodic steady state for the operating conditions listed below. The axial profiles at the end of the endothermic and exothermic steps were independent of the oxygen inlet concentration during the combustion step.
This rapid temperature response indicates that the coke combustion is a very local phenomenon. If the catalyst is heated uniformly, the total temperature increase due to combustion of the coke can be calculated with
(1)
where MC,0 represents the coke content at the beginning of the exothermic step. From the coke formation model described in Van Sint Annaland, Kuipers, and van Swaaij (2001b) it can be estimated that a 33% propylene/67% hydrogen gas mixture at 650°C produces after
only about
, which results in a temperature increase of the monolith of less than 1°C, assuming a catalyst heat capacity of
(Hayes, Kolaczkowski, Thomas, & Titiloye, 1996) and a reaction enthalpy for coke combustion of
. For this experiment the contribution of coke combustion to the net heating of the catalyst during an entire methane combustion cycle can be neglected. However, the coke is formed and combusted locally in the washcoat of the monolith and if the conduction of energy from the washcoat to the monolith support is rate determining (despite the small washcoat thickness), temporarily much higher temperatures might exist in the washcoat. To avoid these local (very) high temperatures it is necessary to decrease the coke combustion rate by decreasing the oxygen concentration, e.g. through nitrogen dilution.
It is important to realise that the contribution of coke combustion to the net heating of the catalyst during the methane combustion step strongly increases, if the endothermic propane dehydrogenation experiments are carried out with longer endothermic process step times and at somewhat higher temperatures. The coke content increases quadratically with increasing propane dehydrogenation reaction step times for the relatively small reaction step times considered here. Furthermore, at higher temperatures the coke content increases very strongly especially because of the decreased influence of the hydrogen concentration (Van Sint Annaland et al., 2001b).
Since large temperature increases can be avoided using oxygen concentrations still well above the desired fuel inlet concentrations, the necessary decrease in the oxygen concentration has no adverse effect on the specification of the endothermic and exothermic operating conditions. The only effect could be a possible advantageous decrease in the methane combustion reaction rate (Trimm & Lam, 1980). If not all the carbonaceous deposits can be removed during the methane combustion step because of the reduced oxygen supply, the oxygen concentration could be gradually increased during the combustion step.
In the next section the results of experiments of propane dehydrogenation in reverse flow coupled with methane combustion with reduced oxygen inlet concentrations are discussed focussing on the effect of back-conversion, i.e. loss of propane conversion due to propylene hydrogenation at the reactor outlet as a result of the low exit temperatures. In all these experiments the following switching scheme was chosen: a methane combustion step followed by a propane dehydrogenation step in the same flow direction, after which the flow direction was alternated and simultaneously a new methane combustion step was started followed again by a propane dehydrogenation step in the same flow direction.
3.2.1. Extent of the back-conversion in a reactor entirely filled with active catalyst
Firstly, the extent of the back-conversion for propane dehydrogenation in reverse flow was investigated for a reactor entirely filled with active catalyst. In Fig. 11 the results for the axial temperature profiles at the end of the reaction steps in the periodic steady state are shown for three cases with different operating conditions. Also the results of the product analysis (propane conversion and relative propylene selectivity) of samples taken at the end of the forward endothermic step just prior to switching to the methane combustion step are listed. In view of the relatively large gas residence time compared to the process step time for the endothermic step, only the concentration at the end of the endothermic step was determined. For all three experiments the differences between the axial temperature profiles at the end of the endothermic and exothermic step are relatively small and the temperature plateau increases and decreases more or less uniformly. The uniform increase and decrease of the temperature plateaux indicates relatively small conversions, as expected because of the short length of the temperature plateau. Therefore, experiments with different (asymmetric) switching schemes gave similar temperature profiles. The decrease in the temperature plateau during the propane dehydrogenation could not have been caused by merely radial heat losses. This was verified experimentally with an experiment where nitrogen was substituted for propane during the ‘propane dehydrogenation’ step, which showed a significantly smaller decrease of the temperature plateau during the ‘endothermic’ step. The temperature difference between the axial temperature profiles at the beginning and end of the propane dehydrogenation step is thus indicative for the average conversion during the propane dehydrogenation step.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. Propane dehydrogenation coupled with methane combustion over a monolithic catalyst: influence of the endothermic process conditions on the axial temperature profiles and the propane conversion and propylene selectivity during the propane dehydrogenation step in the periodic steady state (middle two heaters were set at 550°C) end of forward exothermic step end of backward exothermic step; ■ end of forward endothermic step; □ end of backward endothermic step.
The effect of increasing the endothermic gas velocity and simultaneously decreasing the endothermic process step time while keeping the operating conditions of the exothermic cycle constant, so that the same amount of energy is supplied, can be seen by comparing experiments 1 and 2. For Experiment 1 with the lower endothermic gas velocity the temperature plateau is somewhat higher at the end of the exothermic steps, probably because of more overlap of the methane combustion zones. The temperature difference between the beginning and the end of the endothermic step, and thus the propane conversion, is larger for the case with the lower endothermic gas velocity, as expected because of the longer gas residence time (note: the propane conversion is much smaller than the equilibrium conversion). However, the conversion determined from a sample taken at the reactor outlet was negligible for the low gas velocity experiment and remarkably larger for the experiment with a higher endothermic gas velocity. This can only be explained by the increased conversion and back-conversion for lower gas velocities during the dehydrogenation step. By shifting the plateau temperature towards the end of the reactor by increasing the process step times for the forward endothermic and exothermic steps compared to the backward steps, a gas sample could be taken at the end of the temperature plateau and a propane conversion of about 10% was determined (profiles not shown in Fig. 11). These experiments show the enormous detrimental effect of the back-conversion on the overall propane conversion. Even if the endothermic gas velocity is increased again with a factor 2.5, with a corresponding increase in the exothermic gas velocity in view of the overall energy balance, (cf. experiments 2 and 3), the propane conversion is hardly effected. The plateau temperature at the end of the endothermic and exothermic step has increased only some 25°C due to the larger gas velocity during the exothermic reaction step, while the length of the temperature plateau is about the same. The decrease in the propane conversion by propane dehydrogenation due to the smaller gas residence time is counteracted by an apparently equivalent decrease in the propane back-conversion by propylene hydrogenation, also because of the smaller gas residence time and the somewhat higher outlet temperatures.
Remarkably, only ethane and no ethylene was detected for these three experiments, although higher selectivities for ethylene compared to ethane are expected for a pure propane feed (see Van Sint Annaland, 2000). Indeed, for the experiment where the temperature plateau was moved to the reactor outlet a high ethylene to ethane ratio was determined. The absence of ethylene in the dehydrogenation experiments is evidently caused by hydrogenation of ethylene to ethane at the end of the reactor, just like the hydrogenation of propylene to propane. The equilibrium conversion of ethane to ethylene and hydrogen is even lower than the equilibrium conversion of propane to propylene at the same temperature and pressure. The back-conversion of ethylene is also highly undesired, since ethylene is a valuable side-product in contrast to ethane.
The small temperature peaks at the back end of the exothermic step are caused by local coke combustion in the washcoat. These temperature peaks disappear within a few seconds after switching to the dehydrogenation step. These temperature peaks indicate that not all the carbonaceous products have been removed from the catalyst surface at the end of the exothermic step. This is mainly caused by the movement of the temperature profiles, especially during the exothermic step because of the much higher gas velocities. At the end of the backward propane dehydrogenation step the temperature plateau is located most to the left. Upon switching to the forward methane combustion step the plateau moves to the right and before all the coke at the left end of the plateau can be combusted, the temperature front passes and the catalyst temperature decreases to too low temperatures to combust the coke. When the temperature plateau returns to the left during the backward methane combustion step part of these remaining carbonaceous deposits are combusted. During the propane dehydrogenation experiments carbonaceous deposits accumulated at the ends of the part of the reactor where high temperatures have been prevailing, i.e. at 0.15–
and at 0.35–
. This was confirmed by relatively high temperature peaks at these axial positions during the methane combustion steps with long cycle times to regenerate the catalyst after the dehydrogenation experiments.
3.2.2. Extent of the back-conversion in a reactor with inactive sections flanking the active catalyst
It has been investigated whether two inactive sections of
length flanking an active section of
at the reactor ends can reduce the back-conversion observed for a reactor entirely filled with active catalyst. In Fig. 12 the axial temperature profiles are shown for a propane dehydrogenation experiment with inactive sections for operating conditions comparable to those in Fig. 11.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. Axial temperature profiles at the end of each reaction step in the periodic steady state for propane dehydrogenation coupled with methane combustion in reverse flow in a reactor filled with
active catalyst flanked with two inactive sections of
at either end. Operating conditions listed below (middle two heaters set at 600°C). Product analysis ca.
before switching:
; σC3H6/σC2=5.4; σC2H4/σC2H6=5.4; (C2=C2H4+C2H6).
Strikingly, due to the inactive sections the length of the temperature plateau has increased considerably and also the plateau temperatures are some 25–50°C higher. From Fig. 13, showing the evolution of the axial temperature profiles during the forward methane combustion step, it can be observed that at the transition between the inactive and active section the temperature strongly increases from 700°C to 800°C within
after switching to the methane combustion step. When the temperature front passes the transition point, the maximum temperature decreases somewhat again.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. Axial temperature profiles at different times (in s) during the forward methane combustion step in the periodic steady state for the propane dehydrogenation experiment coupled with methane combustion in reverse flow in a reactor filled with
active catalyst flanked with two inactive sections of
at either end for the operating conditions listed in Fig. 12.
Although the length of the temperature plateau in the active section at the end of the endothermic step has increased some 50% and the plateau temperature is some 25°C higher due to the inactive sections (cf. Fig. 12 with Fig. 11, experiment 3), the propane conversion has increased an order of magnitude from 1.9% to 14.6%. Since this conversion corresponds to the maximum conversion determined from the experiment where the temperature profile was moved to the reactor end, it can be concluded that the inactive sections reduce the propylene back-conversion to a very large extent in this experiment. Furthermore, also the ethylene back-conversion has been largely prevented by the inactive sections, as shown by the high ratio of the ethylene and ethane selectivities.
Results of experiments performed with different inlet gas flow rates for the endothermic reaction step, ranging from
to
, keeping all other operating conditions constant are shown in Fig. 14. For these experiments the methane inlet concentration has been increased somewhat compared to the previous experiments to increase the propane conversion. The figures clearly show the formation of a broad temperature peak during the exothermic methane combustion step and the subsequent consumption of the temperature peak during the endothermic propane dehydrogenation step, while the temperature fronts move in the direction of the flow. Due to the higher temperatures of the temperature peaks resulting from the higher methane inlet concentration the greater part of the conversion of propane to propylene takes place at the temperature peaks at the beginning of the endothermic step. However, at the end of the endothermic step when the temperature peak has almost been consumed, the propane conversion takes place more uniformly over the temperature plateau.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 14. Propane dehydrogenation coupled with methane, combustion over a monolithic catalyst at
length in the centre of the reactor and two
inactive sections at the reactor ends: influence of the endothermic flow rate on the axial temperature profiles and the propane conversion and propylene selectivity during the propane dehydrogenation step in the periodic steady state (middle two heaters were set at 600°C) end of forward exothermic step end of backward exothermic step; ■ end of forward endothermic step; □ end of backward endothermic step.
The temperature profiles at the end of the methane combustion steps are practically the same for the different experiments because of identical operating conditions during the exothermic reaction step (indicating the negligible influence of the operating conditions during the dehydrogenation step on the axial temperature profile at the end of the methane combustion step). With the operating conditions chosen, the temperature at the transition point between the active and inactive section at the back end of the temperature profile during the propane dehydrogenation step is always above 650°C, assuring high possible propane conversions. The equilibrium conversion of pure propane at 650°C and atmospheric pressure is about 67%.
When the endothermic gas flow rate was increased from 1.0 to
, experiments 3 and 4 respectively, the propane conversion decreased from 20.8% to 12.4%. The plateau temperatures at the end of the propane dehydrogenation step remained about the same, but the length of the plateau temperature has decreased some 10% due to the higher heat front velocity during the endothermic reaction step. The decrease in propane conversion corresponds well to the decrease in the gas residence time and the shorter temperature plateau. The propylene and olefin selectivities were very high for these relatively high endothermic gas flow rates.
Decreasing the endothermic gas flow rate from 1.0 to
, experiments 3 and 1, respectively, the gas residence time increased with a factor 4, but the propane conversion has hardly increased (from 20.8% to 25.2%), even though the length of the temperature plateau increased somewhat and plateau temperature increased some 25–50°C. An explanation for the absence of the increase in the propane conversion is the decrease of the catalyst activity caused by the accumulation of carbonaceous deposits. Due to the higher plateau temperature, longer temperature plateau and somewhat higher propylene concentrations during the propane dehydrogenation if the endothermic gas velocity is decreased, the coke formation rates are considerably increased. Due to the increased amount of coke deposited on the catalyst during the propane dehydrogenation step, probably not all the coke products can be combusted within the relatively short methane combustion step, causing accumulation of carbonaceous products also in the centre of the active catalyst section. Accumulation of relatively large amounts of carbonaceous deposits also in the centre of the reactor was confirmed when the catalyst was regenerated in a separate step after the propane dehydrogenation experiments.
4. Summary and conclusions
Propane dehydrogenation coupled with methane combustion over a monolithic catalyst in reverse flow has been experimentally investigated. In a small laboratory scale monolith reactor, insulated and installed with compensatory heating, axial temperature profiles as a function of time and the product composition of the reactor effluent at the end of the endothermic propane dehydrogenation step were determined. It was shown that the absence of radial mixing in the monolithic catalyst helped minimising radial heat losses. Despite the inevitably large influences of radial heat losses on the axial temperature profiles the experiments have shown that endothermic and exothermic reactions can be coupled in reverse flow, integrating in situ heat supply and catalyst regeneration with recuperative heat exchange. Although the influence of radial heat losses prevented from quantitative validation of the experiments with model simulations, the experiments showed that the periodic steady state was easily obtained without any problems associated with process control and intermediate flushing with nitrogen between the propane dehydrogenation and fuel combustion reaction steps could indeed be safely omitted. Too high temperatures in the catalyst during the methane combustion step due to local combustion of carbonaceous products deposited in the washcoat during the propane dehydrogenation cycle could be avoided by decreasing the oxygen concentration.
Propane dehydrogenation experiments in a reactor entirely filled with active catalyst showed that almost all the propylene formed at the high temperature plateau was again hydrogenated at the reactor ends, resulting in a low propane conversion. Remarkably, for higher endothermic gas velocities the propane conversion increased. The lower gas residence time decreased the conversion of propane by propane dehydrogenation at the high temperatures of the temperature plateau, but also decreased the back-conversion of propylene by hydrogenation at the lower temperatures at the reactor end. Noteworthily, also the ethylene formed as a side product was hydrogenated to ethane at the reactor ends. Experiments with two inactive sections at the reactor ends flanking an active catalyst section in the centre showed that the back-conversion of both propylene and ethylene could be effectively suppressed. The inactive sections also increased the plateau temperature and the length of the temperature plateau.
Furthermore, the propane dehydrogenation experiments have shown that carbonaceous deposits can accumulate at the ends of the temperature plateau most to the left and most to the right. Due to the much larger heat front velocity during the exothermic combustion step compared to the endothermic dehydrogenation step because of the much higher throughput, the duration of time that high temperatures prevailed at these positions was much larger during the endothermic process step compared to the exothermic process step. As a result, the time during the combustion step was insufficient to remove all the carbonaceous deposits formed during the endothermic step. Accumulation of coke deposits at these positions can be reduced, if the exothermic process step is allowed to act in the same flow direction as the endothermic step for a little while before the flow direction is reversed, simultaneously purging the reactor and minimising propylene losses. Additionally, accumulation of coke deposits can be counteracted by choosing the forward exothermic and endothermic process step times somewhat larger than the backward process step times, so that the temperature profiles move gradually over several complete cycles to the right, and subsequently smaller forward process step times to move the temperatures back to the left, and so on, obviously at the expense of slightly larger heat losses. Moreover, if necessary, once in a while two additional process steps can be included after the methane combustion step and before switching to the propane dehydrogenation step. During these two steps (a forward and backward step) with mainly air as feed (possibly with methane added to maintain high temperatures and possibly diluted with nitrogen to avoid exceeding maximum temperature constraints) the temperature plateau can be moved through the entire reactor removing all the coke deposits and completely regenerate the catalyst. Furthermore, if the plateau temperature during the propane dehydrogenation step is very high the coke formation rate can be higher than the coke combustion rate (with the low oxygen concentration to avoid too high temperatures). In this case coke can also accumulate in the centre of the temperature plateau. At high operating temperatures the contribution of coke combustion to the net heating of the catalyst can be considerable. The increased amount of carbonaceous deposits will decrease the catalyst activity, so that lower product yields could result despite the higher operating temperatures. To avoid accumulation of coke the maximum allowable operating temperatures are restricted by the coke formation and coke combustion rates and, moreover, the ratio of the exothermic to endothermic process step times needs to be large enough to combust all the coke.
Notation
specific external catalyst surface area,
heat capacity,
insulation thickness, m
activation energy,
external heat transfer coefficient,
reaction enthalpy,
reaction enthalpy of coke combustion,
th order Bessel function
pre-exponential first-order heterogeneous reaction rate constant,
reactor length, m
coke content,
radial coordinate (i.e. direction perpendicular to flow direction), m
gas constant,
; reactor radius, m
time, s
process step time, s
temperature, K
temperature of the surroundings, K
temperature increase due to coke combustion, K
gas phase molar fraction,
dimensionless temperature difference
axial position, m
Greek letters
th root of
monolith porosity,
dimensionless maximum temperature,
, dimensionless
conversion, dimensionless
conductivity,
dimensionless radial coordinate,
, dimensionless
density,
selectivity, dimensionless
dimensionless axial coordinate,
, dimensionless
volumetric flow rate,
or
mass flux,
mass fraction,
Subscripts
catalyst phase
coke
eff effective (i.e. considering the monolith as a pseudo-homogeneous medium)
gas phase
in inlet
ins insulation material
max maximum
0 initial
pre-exponential; surroundings
Superscripts
endo endothermic reaction step
exo exothermic reaction step
Dimensionless numbers
Biot number:
Graetz number:
maximum temperature number:
Symbols
forward flow
backward flow
Acknowledgements
The investigations were financially supported by the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO). The author wishes to thank in particular H. J. Moed for the construction and maintenance of the experimental set-up. Also the help of R. Meijer with the process control was greatly appreciated.
Appendix A. Estimation of heat losses in the experimental reverse flow reactor
The extent of heat losses in the experimental reverse flow reactor can be assessed from experimentally determined steady-state axial and radial temperature profiles for experiments using preheated air as feed at different gas flow rates and inlet temperatures. In these experiments the flow direction through the catalyst bed was not reversed and no fuels were added to the air feed. Based on a simple two-dimensional model effective heat conductivities for the monolith and the insulation materials could be estimated. The radial conductive energy transport through the reactor wall and the two different layers of insulation materials were lumped in one effective heat conductivity and, furthermore, small differences in the insulation thickness along the axial coordinate were ignored. Moreover, the effective heat conductivities of the monolith and the insulation material have both been assumed independent of the operating conditions, especially the temperature and gas velocity. With these parameters the effects of heat losses on the axial temperature profiles in the reverse flow reactor can be investigated.
To simplify the description of the energy transfer processes in the monolith and the insulation materials and to enable us to obtain an analytical solution for the temperature profiles, the rectangular monolith is approximated by a cylinder, as depicted in Fig. 15 Furthermore a uniform gas velocity profile over the channels is assumed.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 15. Monolith approximated as a cylinder in the description of radial heat losses.
A differential steady-state energy balance over the monolith (gas and catalyst phase), neglecting axial conduction compared to axial convection, yields:
(A.1)
with the following boundary conditions:
(A.2a)
(A.2b)
(A.2c)
In the last boundary condition the heat flux from the monolith is equated with the heat flux into the insulation material. Note that the heat transport through the reactor wall, a layer of ceramic wool and an additional layer of ceramic foam has been described with one overall effective heat conductivity. The solution of this partial differential equation with the above boundary conditions is given by Carlslaw and Jaeger (1959)
(A.3)
where the dimensionless driving force and dimensionless radial and axial coordinates have been defined as
(A.4)
(A.5)
(A.6)
and the Graetz-number and Biot-number as
(A.7)
(A.8)
where βn is the nth root of
.
Using experiments with preheated air feed with different inlet gas flow rates and inlet temperatures, the effective monolith heat conductivity and the Bi-number were estimated at
and 0.54, respectively. The results have been depicted in Fig. 16. With an average insulation thickness of
, the conductivity of the insulation is estimated at
. The estimates for the monolith and insulation conductivities compare reasonably well with typical values for cordierite monoliths and insulation materials.
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 16. Axial temperature profiles in the centre of the monolith (radial distance 0–
) (a) and radial temperature profiles at
from the inlet (b) when feeding preheated air with different inlet temperatures and gas flow rates (volumetric flow rate for experiments 1–5: 3.6, 10.8, 3.7, 10.8 and
, respectively). The markers indicate the experimental values. The lines correspond to model calculations using an effective heat conductivity for the monolith of
and Bi set equal to 0.54.
From these experiments it can be concluded that the temperature in the innermost channels is practically uniform in the direction perpendicular to the average flow direction (see Fig. 16b). Furthermore, ignoring radial temperature profiles overall radial heat transfer coefficients can be estimated from the experiments at 2–
.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
