I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Low-Temperature Direct Dehydrogenation of Propane over Binary Oxide Catalysts: Insights into Geometric Effects and Active Sites
Abstract
Binary ZnZrxOy catalysts were prepared and employed to catalyze propane dehydrogenation at relatively low temperatures. The evaluation of these materials for propane dehydrogenation was supplemented by material characterization and density functional theory calculations, to provide molecular insights into the nature of the catalytic active sites. Combined, these experiments suggested that coordinatively unsaturated Zn cations (Zncus) in ZncusOZrcus were the active sites for the first step of propane dehydrogenation, and coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations (Zrcus) in ZncusOZrcus were active sites for the second step. This synergistic effect, derived from both these components, led to significant enhancements in activity. Furthermore, the combination of Zn and Zr species resulted in notable changes to the structure of the catalysts, leading to both the formation of the Zrcus active site and improved oxygen mobility. ZnZr2 exhibited relatively high activity.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:propane direct dehydrogenation low temperature synergy effect reaction mechanism binary ZnZrxOy catalysts
Synopsis
Coordinatively unsaturated Zn (Zncus) and Zr (Zrcus) in ZncusOZrcus were the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Propene (C3H6) is one of the most important petrochemicals and is commonly used to produce polymers and rubber. (1) The continuously increasing demand for C3H6 has led to the development of alternative, nonoxidative approaches for propane (C3H8) dehydrogenation (PDH) reaction, compared to traditional methods such as the cracking of naphtha. (2) At present, PDH is predominantly catalyzed by supported Pt-based (39) and CrOx-based catalysts. (6) However, some problematic limitations associated with the use of these materials must not be overlooked. For instance, Pt-based catalysts are costly and CrOx-based catalysts are toxic to the environment. (2,10) It is of great importance to develop an effective catalyst that is cheap and environmentally friendly. A variety of materials, such as carbon-based materials, (1114) Ga-based catalysts, (15,16) V-based catalysts, (17) Zn-based catalysts, (1820) Co-based catalysts, (21) and Zr-based catalysts, (22) were found to be active for this reaction. Some progress has been made in this field, but in some areas, there remains room for development: (1) catalytic performance (activity and selectivity) must be enhanced; (2) high reaction temperatures are often employed, which favor undesirable side reactions such as cracking forming C2H4 and CH4, coking, and hydrogenolysis generating C2H6 and CH4; and (3) the reaction mechanism is still under debate, due to high reaction temperatures hindering the application of operando characterization techniques.
Among the aforementioned materials, Zr-based catalysts, which are cheap and environmentally friendly, exhibit relatively good catalytic performance for PDH. A previous study by Otroshchenko et al. proposed that coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations (Zrcus) were the active sites for PDH. (22) The authors demonstrated that the activity of the catalysts increased with decreasing strength of the metaloxygen bond. This was attributed to the high oxygen mobility and the easy removal of lattice oxygen forming oxygen vacancy (Ov) and Zrcus. (22) Zhang et al. also proposed that Zrcus sites in ZrO2 were responsible for the breaking of CH bonds in PDH. (23) The phase composition and crystallite size of ZrO2 was demonstrated to influence the ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reduction of catalysts, influencing the formation of Zrcus sites. Zr-based catalysts have therefore shown promise for PDH, but most examples require a high reaction temperature (ca. 570 C) to reach a favorable substrate conversion. It has been suggested that the utilization of pre-reductive methods or doping with lower valence metals can lead to improved activity of Zr-based catalysts. (24,25) Doping of these Zr catalysts has also been demonstrated to have a positive effect on C3H6 selectivity. However, a limited number of studies have focused on deriving a mechanism for PDH over Zr-based bimetallic oxides, especially regarding the role of metal species in the reaction. There is some debate on the role of the metals in this reaction. For instance, in some reports, Zrcus sites have been proposed to be the active sites, with the secondary metal serving as a promoter. On the contrary, other studies have suggested that Zr species are promoters for the secondary metal ions, which are considered to be the active sites. (26,27) For example, Han et al. reported that supported ZnOx species participated in the PDH reaction, while ZrO2 enhanced the activity of Zn-containing ZrO2-based catalysts. (27) The byproducts formed in this research, which were also important, were not founded in a systematic study. However, the formation of byproducts over these catalysts should also be investigated to design catalysts with high catalytic activity and C3H6 selectivity. It has been claimed in other works that the acidity of catalyst influences the product selectivity. (25) With this in mind, it is important to develop an effective Zr-based bimetallic oxides catalyst, which can exhibit both a good activity and selectivity at relatively low temperatures. Further efforts are also required to determine the nature of the active sites and the role of metal species. To better understand and design catalysts for this process, it is critical to further study the reaction mechanism and the formation of byproducts.
It is known that ZnO is a weak base and ZrO2 is a weak acid. Considering acidbase properties and their influence on the product selectivity, a series of binary ZnZrxOy catalysts (denoted as ZnZr catalysts) were prepared and investigated for PDH at relatively low temperatures (400500 C). Experiments were designed to get insight into the active sites present in these materials and understand the synergistic relationship between Zn and Zr species. These investigations included probing the materials using a variety of characterization techniques and correlating their physicochemical properties with kinetic experiments and density-functional theory (DFT) calculations. These investigations revealed that the Zncus and Zrcus present in ZncusOZrcus are active sites for the first and second steps of C3H8 dehydrogenation. By conducting these investigations, a reaction pathway for PDH over bimetallic ZnZrxOy catalysts was proposed.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Catalyst Characterization
X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) patterns of the ZnZr catalysts (referred to as ZnZrx, where x represents Zr/Zn mole ratio) are presented in Figure 1. Both tetragonal (t-ZrO2) and monoclinic (m-ZrO2) phases were identified in pure ZrO2. However, upon the addition of Zn, diffraction peaks associated with m-ZrO2 phase disappeared. This suggests that doping ZrO2 with transition metals, which have different oxidation states and/or atomic radii, can lead to phase transformation from m-ZrO2 to t-ZrO2. Previously, this has been attributed to the formation of Ov and Zrcus. (25,28) The disappearance of the monoclinic phase in the ZnZr catalysts indicates the successful substitution of Zn into the ZrO2 crystalline phase and the formation of Zrcus. For pure ZnO, a hexagonal ZnO phase was observed. Upon increasing the Zr/Zn mole ratio, the intensity of diffraction peaks associated with ZnO decreased and eventually disappeared in the ZnZr5 material. The dramatically diminished intensity of diffraction peaks associated with ZnO in the ZnZr catalysts compared with pure ZnO is likely to be indicative of the incorporation of Zn ions into ZrO2 lattice. In addition, the XRD patterns of the used ZnZr2 catalyst were similar to the fresh. The specific surface area and pore structure parameters of the ZnZr catalysts were determined by N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms (shown in Figure S2 and Table S1). The ZnZr catalysts all exhibited a type IV isotherm with an H4-type hysteresis loop, indicating that all of the ZnZr catalysts possessed mesoporous structures.
Figure 1
Figure 1. XRD patterns of ZnZr catalysts with various Zr/Zn mole ratios calcined at 550 C.
X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) of the Zr 3d and Zn 2p regions for each of the catalysts are shown in Figures 2 and S3. The peaks at 184.0  0.2 and 1044.0  0.2 eV can be assigned to Zr4+ and Zn2+, respectively. This suggests that only Zr4+ and Zn2+ species are present on the surface of the catalysts. It was noteworthy that as the Zr/Zn mole ratio increased from 1:1 to 2:1, the Zr 3d5/2 peaks shifted to a lower binding energy (BE) and the Zn 2p3/2 peaks moved toward a higher BE, and then the BE of both species changed indistinctively when the Zr/Zn mole ratio increased further. This implies that the interactions between ZrO2 and ZnO become stronger as the Zr/Zn mole ratio is increased, which gives further evidence of the replacement of Zr by Zn in the ZrO2 lattice. Furthermore, the corresponding O 1s spectra of ZnZr catalysts have been deconvolved into three peaks as shown in Figure 2. The peaks at 529.9, 531.4, and 532.4 eV can be ascribed to lattice oxygen (O2), Ov, and chemically adsorbed oxygen species (Oα), respectively. (29) The relative areas of Ov/O for the samples are summarized in Table S2. It can be observed that ZnZr2 has the highest Ov. This result is also proved by EPR shown in Figure S4. It is rational to suggest that as the Zr/Zn ratio increased, a greater quantity of ZnOZr bonding and Zrcus will be present. This is further supported by the fact that the electron-withdrawing nature of Zr is known to weaken the ZnO bonds. (30) The determined atomic ratios of Zr/Zn on the catalyst surface were 1.5, 2.5, and 3.9 for ZnZr, ZnZr2, and ZnZr5, respectively (Table S2). These values were close to the corresponding nominal values, which again suggests that Zn was successfully incorporated into the ZrO2 structure.
Figure 2
Figure 2. XPS spectra of (a) Zr 3d, (b) Zn 2p, and (c) O 1s of ZnZr catalysts.
H2-TPR profiles of the ZnZr catalysts are displayed in Figure 3. The temperatures associated with the maximal consumption of hydrogen (TmaxH2) are listed in Table S3. Only small quantities of H2 were consumed in the experiment over pure ZnO; this material exhibited a TmaxH2 at ca. 522 C, which is ascribed to the reduction of Zn2+ to Zncus. However, there was a large hydrogen uptake at ca. 620 C in the H2-TPR experiment over ZrO2, which has previously been attributed to an interaction between lattice oxygen and H2. (31) Compared to ZrO2, the ZnZr catalyst all exhibited a lower TmaxH2. This can be attributed to the easier removal of oxygen in ZnOZr species, resulting from the decreased metaloxygen bonds and/or transmission of lattice oxygen of ZrO2 to reduced ZnO. This behavior is indicative of a synergistic effect between Zn and Zr species, which is a result of structural change. The change results in increased oxygen mobility and promotes the removal of lattice oxygen from ZnZr catalysts, generating Zncus and Zrcus of ZncusOZrcus. In brief, the oxygen mobility of ZnZr catalysts increased due to the synergy effect of ZnO and ZrO2. The TmaxH2 value for the ZnZr catalysts shifted to a higher temperature as the Zr/Zn mole ratio was increased; this was true for all of the bimetallic catalysts screened, apart from ZnZr2, which exhibited the lowest TmaxH2 due to the more ZnOZr species. Quantitative measurements in relation to hydrogen consumption are presented in Table S3. ZnZr2 possessed the highest amount of H2 consumed among the ZnZr catalysts, which was ascribed to more ZnOZr species.
Figure 3
Figure 3. H2-TPR profiles of ZnZr catalysts.
The acidbase properties of the ZnZr catalysts were determined by NH3-TPD (Figure S5), CO2-TPD (Figure S6), and IR-Py (Figure S7). For all samples, only a broad desorption peak of NH3 was observed in a temperature range between 80 and 300 C, indicative of weak- and medium-strength acid sites. (31,32) It was found that an increase in acid strength was in direct correlation with an increase in the Zr content. On the contrary, CO2-TPD indicated that the quantity of basic sites in the material decreased as the Zr content increased; the strength of the basic sites was however enhanced. Figure S7 displays the IR-Py spectra determined by adsorbing pyridine at 400 and 500 C. The bands at 1443 and 1595 cm1 are indicative of pyridine adsorbed on Lewis acid sites (LA). A band at 1486 (1495) cm1 is indicative of pyridine adsorbed on Bronsted acid sites (BA) and LA sites. (28) The amounts of LA sites, BA sites, and basic sites for each of the catalysts are listed in Table S1. Among the bimetallic catalysts, ZnZr2 possessed the lowest quantity of acid sites. This was attributed to the low content of Zr4+ and total metal ions on the surface of the ZnZr2 catalyst as determined by XPS results.
Activity of ZnZr Catalysts and Determination of Active Sites for C3H6 Formation
The catalytic performances of a series of ZnZr catalysts for the PDH were investigated at 400 and 500 C (Table 1), respectively. ZnZr catalysts displayed remarkably improved catalytic performance compared to the monometallic counterparts (ZnO and ZrO2). As the reaction temperature was increased from 400 to 500 C, the C3H8 conversion over the ZnZr catalysts increased significantly, but the C3H6 selectivity declined drastically. The ZnZr2 catalyst was determined to be superior to the other ZnZr catalysts, in terms of both the C3H8 conversion and C3H6 selectivity; 21% of C3H8 conversion and 92% of C3H6 selectivity were obtained over ZnZr2 at 450 C. When the C3H8 feed concentration was increased to 21 vol %, the C3H8 conversion and the C3H6 selectivity were 26 and 86% with space-time yield of C3H6 of 1.32 kgC3H6·kgcat1·h1, respectively, at 500 C. The catalytic activity was higher than that Zn(4 wt %)/TiZrOx (1.25 kgC3H6·kgcat1·h1 at 550 C) with respect to space-time yield of C3H6. (27) Interestingly, under these conditions, the C3H8 conversion and C3H6 selectivity were only 20 and 81% over the industrial 0.5 wt % Pt/Al2O3, and 17 and 85% over commercial K-CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively. This illustrated that ZnZr2 exhibited a better catalytic activity than 0.5 wt % Pt/Al2O3. The TOF for C3H6 formation, normalized by the amount of consumed H2, is illustrated in Figure 4a, and the correlation between rC3H6 and hydrogen consumption is also shown in Figure 4b. It could be found that rC3H6 has almost linear correlation with the hydrogen consumption. This confirms that the active sites were Zncus and/or Zrcus. Furthermore, it was observed that the TOFs for all of the ZnZr catalysts were comparable. All of these were however notably higher than TOFs calculated from the reactions over the ZnO, ZrO2, and physically mixed ZnO + 2ZrO2 catalysts. It can be concluded that the active sites in the ZnZr catalysts for C3H8 dehydrogenation to C3H6 are likely different from those in the ZnO (with single Zncus) and ZrO2 (with single Zrcus) catalysts. It can be postulated that both Zrcus and Zncus of ZncusOZrcus are the active sites in the bimetallic ZnZr catalysts, and a synergistic relationship can be observed through combining both Zr and Zn species.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (a) TOF over the reduced catalysts at a reaction temperature of 500 C, ZnZr catalysts were reduced under 550 C, others under 600 C. (b) Dependence of the rates of C3H6 formation over the ZnZr catalysts at 500 C on the amount of consumed H2.
Table 1. Catalytic Activity for PDH over Various Mono- and Bimetallic Catalysts Comprising Zn and Zra
  400 C 500 C
catalyst XC3H8% SC3H6% XC3H8% SC3H6%
ZnO 0 0 4 66
ZnZr 0 0 25 77
ZnZr2 6 98 44 73
ZnZr3 4 96 45 61
ZnZr4 4 95 51 44
ZnZr5 3 99 22 84
ZrO2 0 0 2 88
ZnO + ZrO2b 0 0 13 77
ZnZr2c 2 99 26 86
aReaction conditions: 5 vol % C3H8 in N2 at a flow rate of 25.0 mL·min1, 0.1 g of catalyst.
bMechanical mixture of ZnO and ZrO2 with Zr/Zn mole ratio of 2:1.
cReaction conditions: 21 vol % C3H8 in N2 at a flow rate of 25.0 mL·min1, 0.1 g of catalyst, WHSV C3H8 of 5.88 h1.
Arrhenius plots for C3H6 formation over each of the catalysts are shown in Figure 5, and the corresponding Ea are listed in Table 2. It is clear that the Ea value of C3H6 formation over ZnZr2 was much lower than that for ZnO, ZrO2, ZnO + ZrO2, and other Zr-based catalysts reported by other works. (23,24) This provides further evidence that the active sites for C3H8 dehydrogenation to C3H6 are not the single Zncus as in ZnO or the single Zrcus as in ZrO2, but ZncusOZrcus derived through a combination of Zrcus and Zncus. The high Ea observed for catalysts that are not exposed to a pre-reductive treatment gives evidence that additional energy is required for the formation of Zncus and Zrcus in situ. The comparable Ea for ZnZr2 before and after reduction confirms that ZnZr2 could be reduced in situ easily. It is therefore important to note that ZnZr2 catalyst can be employed without reduction while maintaining a high catalytic performance; the performance of this material is either comparable to or higher than other reduced catalysts at lower reaction temperatures in the literature, which are examined at temperatures up to ca. 600 C. (27,28) The good catalytic performance of ZnZr2 is due to the presence of both Zn and Zr species; this evidently influences the structure of the catalyst and leads to the observed synergistic effect.
Figure 5
Figure 5. (a) r(C3H6) of catalysts and (b) Arrhenius plots of PDH over catalysts.
Table 2. Ea and the Initial Rate of C3H6 Formation under 500 C over Employed Catalysts without and with Reduction
catalyst Ea (kJ·mol1) rC3H6×102 (mmolC3H6·gcat1·min1)
ZnZr2 68 71(0.3)a 18.3 18.0a
ZnO + ZrO2 90 81(0.5)b 2.1 3.0b
ZnO 102 83(0.5)b 2.0 2.6b
ZrO2 176 178(1.0)b 0.8c 0.8c
aCatalysts reduced by H2 under 550 C.
bCatalysts reduced by H2 under 600 C.
cCatalysts reduced by H2 at 600 C, reaction temperature of 550 C.
To determine whether Zncus, Zrcus, and neighboring lattice oxygen O2 were involved in breaking the CH bonds in C3H8, additional C3H8 dehydrogenation experiments over ZnZr2 catalyst were conducted in the presence of CO2 (1 vol %) and O2 (1 vol %), respectively. It is known that under these conditions, CO2 can react with O2 to form carbonates while O2 can react with Ov to reduce the number of Zncus and Zrcus species. (25) At 500 C, the rate of C3H6 formation over the reduced ZnZr2 catalyst dropped from 0.18 to 0.15 mmolC3H6·gcat1·min1 in the presence of CO2, and to 0.08 mmolC3H6·gcat1·min1 in the presence of O2. These results confirmed that Zncus, Zrcus, and O2 species in ZncusOZrcus were responsible for C3H8 dehydrogenation to C3H6.
To confirm the above hypothesis in which the combination of Zn and Zr species resulted in notable changes to the structure of the catalysts and ZncusOZrcus were the active sites, a series of DFT calculations were performed. The optimized geometry structures of ZrO2(101), Zn-substituted ZrO2, and ZnZr catalysts are displayed in Figure S8. For pure ZrO2, the length of the ZrO bond was 2.32 Å. For the optimized structure of ZnZr catalysts, the formation energy of the surface Ov was 1.36 eV, indicating that Ov can form spontaneously in the ZnZr catalysts. This result was consistent with the XRD results. Compared with ZnO (1.99 Å) in ZnO and ZrO in ZrO2, the bond lengths of ZnO (2.08 Å) and ZrO (2.43 Å) of ZnOZr in ZnZr catalysts were long, which could result in the weakening of ZnO and ZrO. This would ultimately lead to an increase in oxygen mobility, which was in agreement with the results acquired from H2-TPR experiments (Figure 3). These results further confirmed that the incorporation of Zn led to the formation of Zrcus and increased the oxygen mobility, while neighboring Zr led to weakened ZnO bonds, compared to those present in pure ZnO.
To gain further insight into the nature of the active sites present, reaction pathways for C3H8 dehydrogenation to C3H6 were computed over the ZnZr catalyst. The optimized structures of intermediates and transition states are displayed in Figure 6. Furthermore, minimum-energy pathways on different sites are displayed in Figure 7. For the dehydrogenation of C3H8 on the single Zrcus sites in ZnZr catalysts (scheme a in Figure 6), the rate-determining step (RDS) was estimated to be the first step (C3H8 + * = *C3H7 + *H), an energy barrier (Ea) of 1.65 eV was determined. For the second step (*C3H7 = C3H6 + *H), it was estimated to be 0.95 eV. For comparison, over the single Zncus site in the ZnZr catalysts (scheme b in Figure 6), the calculated Ea values were 0.61 and 0.67 eV for the first and second steps of C3H8 dehydrogenation, respectively. Therefore, over the single Zncus site, the second step is rate-determining. The Ea on the single Zncus sites for both steps is much lower than that on the single Zrcus sites, indicative of that C3H8 dehydrogenation is more efficient over the Zncus sites. This is consistent with the experimental results in Table 2. However, the path by which the first step occurs on Zncus sites in ZncusOZrcus and then the second step occurs on Zrcus sites in ZncusOZrcus (scheme c in Figure 6) shows Ea values of 0.61 and 0.52 eV for the first and second steps, respectively. However, the path by which the first step occurs on Zncus sites in ZncusOvZrcus and then the second step occurs on Zrcus sites in ZncusOvZrcus (scheme d in Figure 6) shows Ea values of 0.70 and 0.74 eV for the first and second steps, respectively. These calculations therefore suggest that over ZnZr catalysts, the lowest-energy barriers are observed when the first step occurs on Zncus sites in ZncusOZrcus and the second step occurs on Zrcus sites. Therefore, through consideration of the experimental and theoretical results, it concludes that Zncus sites and Zrcus sites in ZncusOZrcus have a synergy effect on the dehydrogenation of C3H8 to C3H6 that the first dehydrogenation step occurs on Zncus sites and that the second step occurs on Zrcus sites in ZncusOZrcus, decreasing Ea further compared with the single Zncus and Zrcus. This result is different from the results reported by Han et al. that Zn species were the active sites for PDH. (27)
Figure 6
Figure 6. Mechanistic scheme and optimized structure of intermediates and transition states over different active sites. Red, blue, and purple stand for O, Zr, and Zn atoms, respectively. White indicates H atom, and gray indicates C atom.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Minimum-energy pathway for the C3H8 dehydrogenation on different sites of ZnZr catalysts.
From the above conclusions and H2-TPR experiments (Figure 3), the ZnZr catalysts cannot be reduced at 400 C. Therefore, the differences in activity of the catalysts at 400 C must be attributed to the presence of intrinsic ZncusOZrcus. However, at a higher temperature of 500 C, whereby ZnZr catalysts can be reduced by H2 in situ, these active sites could be generated during the reaction. Therefore, at higher temperatures, the better catalytic performance of the ZnZr2 catalyst can be ascribed to the more intrinsic and generated ZncusOZrcus. In brief, regardless of the reaction temperature, the more ZncusOZrcus a catalyst possesses, the higher the dehydrogenation activity observed.
Formation of Byproducts
As discussed previously, the formation of byproducts often limits the viability of catalysts for this reaction. In addition, to understand how C3H6 is formed over these materials, it is also important to consider how byproducts are formed, to further aid catalyst design. It is known that the product selectivity and C3H8 conversion in this reaction are not only affected by the physicochemical of catalysts but also by the reaction conditions. According to the results acquired from BET measurements (Figure S2 and Table S1), Py-IR experiments (Figure S7 and Table S1), CO2-TPD experiments (Figure S6 and Table S1), and NH3-TPD experiments (Figure S5 and Table S1), the specific surface area, acidity, and basicity of catalyst had no significant influence on C3H8 conversion at low reaction temperatures. Other studies have confirmed that the product selectivity is also influenced by C3H8 conversion. (32) To identify which parameter influenced the product selectivity over these catalysts, experiments were performed on the different catalysts under identical reaction conditions. Product selectivity and C3H8 conversion at 500 C over various catalysts are shown in Figure 8. When the C3H8 conversion was almost same, the coke selectivity over ZnZr was higher than that over ZnZr5, ascribed to the more BA amount of ZnZr. To further confirm the effect of BA on coke at 500 C, the amount of ZnZr2 was halved to ensure the C3H8 conversion is comparable to that of ZnZr (Figure 8). It was found that C3H8 conversion was 30%, and the coke selectivity was 8%, which was lower than that over ZnZr and ZnZr5 (determined in Figure 8). These results further illustrated that BA favored the formation of coke. To further explore and detect the difference of coke type and coke amount, Raman spectra (Figure S9) and TGA (Figure S10) were employed. The calculated ID/IG ratios of ZnZr catalysts (Table S4) were in the range of 0.270.39. Additionally, when C3H8 conversions were comparable, the amounts of coke on the spent ZnZr2 (0.7%) and ZnZr5 (0.9%) were lower than that on ZnZr, ascribed to the more amount of BA of ZnZr. This suggested that BA favored the formation of coke.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Selectivity of products over catalysts at 500 C,  conversion. Reaction conditions: 5 vol % C3H8 in N2 at a flow rate of 25.0 mL·min1, 0.1 g of catalyst. ZnZr2-3 was 0.3 g of ZnZr2 catalyst.
The influence of the reactions conditions on product selectivity, such as the amount of catalyst and reaction temperature, was also investigated. For ZnZr2, when the catalyst amount was increased (Figure 8), C3H8 conversion, coke selectivity, and C2H6 selectivity all increased dramatically. This may be attributed to the increased active sites and quantity of acid sites, which promotes both side reactions such as the consecutive reaction of C3H6 and hydrogenolysis. The result also indirectly confirmed that a sequential reaction involving C3H6 occurs. It was also found that, upon increasing the reaction temperature from 500 to 550 C, the coke selectivity over ZnZr2 increased from 20 to 37%. Therefore, over this catalyst, the lower the reaction temperature, the higher the C3H6 selectivity.
To further investigate the formation of byproducts, the selectivityconversion relationship of various products over ZnZr2 was assessed. As revealed in Figure 9, the C3H6 selectivity, at close to zero C3H8 conversion, decreased from nearly 100 to 98% as the reaction temperature was increased from 400 to 500 C. This behavior illustrated that those byproducts can be formed from C3H8, and the formation of byproducts increases with reaction temperature. The selectivityconversion relationship of coke at 500 C is presented in Figure 9b. Through extrapolation of the coke selectivity to zero C3H8 conversion, coke selectivity of ca. 3% is observed, implying that coke may be generated directly from C3H8 at 500 C. It was also observed that coke selectivity increased proportionally to C3H8 conversion, again implying that coke may be formed directly from C3H6. (32) To further establish whether C3H6 is converted directly to coke and other byproducts under reaction conditions, additional experiments over ZnZr4 were conducted, where C3H6 was used in the feedstock. C3H6 conversion was minimal at 400 C but increased 18%, with 50% of coke selectivity, over ZnZr4 when reacted at 500 C. These experiments evidence that very little C3H6 is converted at 400 C, but clearly confirms the negative impact of increased reaction temperature on selectivity. Other byproducts also observed from C3H6 were CH4, C2H4, and i-C4H8. This further underlines the importance of running these experiments at lower reaction temperatures.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Selectivityconversion relationship of product over ZnZr2: (a) under 400 C and (b) under 500 C.
To gain further understanding on the formation of byproducts, the Ea values of the cracking product (C2H4) and coke were derived from Arrhenius plots, where C3H8 was used as substrate (Figure S11 and Table 3). Evidently, the Ea values for both C2H4 and coke formation over ZnZr2 were much higher than those over ZnO and ZrO2. This implies that the formation of these byproducts is inhibited over the ZnZr2 catalyst. The reduced ZnZr2 exhibited a much higher Ea for C2H4 formation and a lower rate of C2H4 formation (0.0017 mmolC2H4·gcat1·min1) than that over ZnZr2 (C2H4 formation rate of 0.016 mmolC2H4·gcat1·min1) at 550 C. These results indicate that H2 reduction may inhibit this undesirable cracking reaction. Therefore, it could be inferred that the active sites for the cracking reaction, which are different from the active sites of dehydrogenation, were the coordinatively saturated Zn and/or Zr sites, the quantities of which are reduced after catalyst reduction. By comparing the Ea values for coke formation over the different catalysts, it is evident that coke is more easily generated over ZrO2 and ZnO than over ZnZr2. This is further underlined by the fact that Ea for C3H6 conversion over ZnZr2 was higher than that over ZnO and ZrO2. The results ultimately suggest that the ZnZr2 catalyst inhibits the undesirable side reactions. From these experiments, it could also be concluded that ZnO promoted these side reactions compared to ZrO2.
Table 3. Ea of C2H4 and Coke Formed from C3H8 and the Ea of C3H6 Conversion over Catalysts Reduced by H2a
  Ea (kJ·mol1)
catalyst C2H4 coke C3H6
ZnO 152 54 81
ZrO2 190 90 93
ZnZr2 313 (198b) 165 145
aZnZr2 reduced under 550 C, ZnO and ZrO2 under 600 C.
bWithout reduction.
Reaction Mechanism
In light of the aforementioned results, Zncus and Zrcus in ZncusOZrcus are the active sites for propane dehydrogenation. For this reason, the catalytic activity of ZnZr catalysts should improve after reduction by H2. (21,23,25) To improve the catalytic performance of ZnZr2, it was reductively (5 vol % H2 in N2) treated at 500 C for 30 min before use. Surprisingly, the initial C3H8 conversion was less than that observed over ZnZr2 in the corresponding experiment without pre-reduction. This behavior was inconsistent with the results presented previously by others. (24) It was also observed that the C3H8 conversion over reduced ZnZr2 increased first and then decreased, which was different from that over ZnZr2 with C3H8 conversion decreasing monotonously. This behavior can be attributed to the decreased adsorption amount of C3H8 on reduced ZnZr2 because of the competitive adsorption of H2, which is adsorbed during the reduction step.
To validate this, additional diffuse reflectance Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) experiments were conducted on the fresh ZnZr2 (Figure 10a) and pre-reduced ZnZr2 (Figure 10b), respectively. For the fresh ZnZr2 catalyst (Figure 10a), the peaks at 2962 and 1445 cm1 are indicative of υas(CH) stretching and δas(CH) bending of CH3 in C3H8, respectively. These peaks were almost unchanged after 2 min. The peaks at ca. 1472 and 1696 cm1 can be assigned to δas(CH) of CH3 and the stretching vibration of CC in C3H6, respectively, which appear at 2 min. These bands first increased and then decreased with a peak indicative of coke (1560 cm1) appearing. (33) This behavior further evidences that C3H6 reacts sequentially to form coke and is consistent with the experiment results discussed previously. This phenomenon also confirmed that the formation of coke is the main reason for the deactivation of the catalysts.
Figure 10
Figure 10. DRIFTS profiles of (a) fresh ZnZr2 and (b) ZnZr2 reduced by H2 (5 vol % H2 in He) under 500 C.
A similar experiment was subsequently conducted on the pre-reduced ZnZr2 sample (Figure 10b). The intensity of the peaks indicative of C3H8 increased over time. This illustrates that the initial adsorption of C3H8 decreased after reduction of ZnZr2, confirming our hypothesis that hydrogen competes with C3H8 for active sites. This correlation is supported by previous work. (34) These experiments explain the diminished initial activity of the pre-reduced ZnZr2, as described previously. The formation of coke corresponding to peak 1547 cm1 over reduced ZnZr2 was similar to that over fresh ZnZr2.
Based on all of the work presented herein, reaction pathways for C3H8 dehydrogenation over ZnZr catalysts were proposed (Figure S12). We propose that C3H8 first adsorbs on the surface of catalysts and then dehydrogenates one H on Zncus in ZncusOZrcus forming C3H7*; the C3H7* further dehydrogenates H on neighboring Zrcus in ZncusOZrcus to generate surface-adsorbed C3H6. The adsorbed C3H6 subsequently either desorbs or partakes in further reactions, forming CH4, C2H4, C2H6, and coke. It has however other paths for C3H8 conversion that adsorbed C3H8 can also crack to CH4 and C2H4 on coordinatively saturated Zn and/or Zr sites and convert to CH4 and C2H6 via hydrogenolysis reaction and coke.
To better understand the active sites and the difference between ZnZr2 without reduction and pre-reduction, the time-on-stream (TOS) plot of ZnZr2 is provided in Figure S13. It could be found that the ZnZr2 without reduction had a lower rate of C3H6 formation than that over the pre-reduction ZnZr2 in the initial due to the formation of active sites during reduction. However, the highest rate of C3H6 formation over the former is higher than that over the latter at 15 min due to the competitive adsorption of H2, which is adsorbed during the reduction step. This was consistent with the above results.
Stability of ZnZr2
Besides catalytic activity and selectivity, the stability of the catalyst is also important. To assess the stability of the superior catalyst ZnZr2 in this reaction, a series of cycling experiments were conducted (shown in Figure 11). After each reaction, the ZnZr2 catalyst was regenerated through calcination of the material in flowing air (25 mL·min1) at 550 C for 20 min. The initial rate of C3H6 formation was 0.106 mmolC3H6·gcat1·min1, which decreased to 0.05 mmolC3H6·gcat1·min1 after 120 min on stream. The diminished catalytic activity was ascribed to the coke formation. After three regeneration cycles, the initial rate was 0.104 mmolC3H6·gcat1·min1, and as such, the catalyst can be fully and repeatedly regenerated to its initial rate. As the XRD patterns of used ZnZr2 catalyst were almost the same as the fresh, it also illustrated that the catalyst was stable.
Figure 11
Figure 11. Rate of C3H6 formation after several regeneration cycles; reaction condition: 0.05 g of catalyst, 5 vol % C3H8 in N2 at a flow rate of 25.0 mL·min1, 450 C.
Dehydrogenation of Isobutane over ZnZr Catalysts
To investigate the universality of catalysts, the series of ZnZr catalysts were also investigated for isobutane dehydrogenation (Table S5). The reactivity of the catalysts was similar to that observed in C3H8 dehydrogenation. An isobutane conversion of 11% and isobutene selectivity of 98% were observed in reactions over the ZnZr2 catalyst at 400 C. Furthermore, isobutane conversion and isobutene selectivity reached 46 and 91% with space-time yield of isobutene of 0.79 kg·kgcat1·h1 over ZnZr2 at 500 C, respectively, which is superior or comparable in performance to other Zn-based, Zr-based catalysts and carbon materials reported for this reaction with respect to space-time yield of isobutene and reaction temperature. (35,36) The main byproducts formed in these reactions were CH4, C2H6, C2H4, C3H8, C3H6, cis-2-butene, trans-2-butene, and coke.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The binary oxide ZnZr catalysts synthesized herein exhibit good activity for PDH even at low temperatures. Through evaluating various propane dehydrogenation reactions and conducting DFT calculations, we propose that Zncus and Zrcus present in ZncusOZrcus are the active sites for the first and second steps of C3H8 dehydrogenation, respectively. The combination of Zn and Zr species led to dramatic changes in the structure and properties of the material, which led to the observed synergistic enhancement in activity, compared to the monometallic counterparts. The incorporation of Zn led to the formation of Zrcus and improved oxygen mobility; ZncusOZrcus are formed in situ under dehydrogenation conditions. Kinetic experiments illustrated that the coordinatively saturated Zn and/or Zr were the active sites for cracking reaction, which were inhibited over the ZnZr catalysts.
The ZnZr2 catalyst presented herein is displayed superior catalytic performance to other examples of ZnZrx at low temperature; 92% C3H6 selectivity was observed at 21% C3H8 conversion at 450 C. These materials are also demonstrated to perform well in the dehydrogenation of isobutane; an isobutene selectivity of 91% was observed at an isobutane conversion of 46% at 500 C. Evidently, these catalytic materials possess great potential for direct alkane dehydrogenation. We hope that the proposed activation mechanism study into product formation will serve as a foundation to further improve the reactivity of ZnZr catalysts for such applications.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


22. Does the article describe techniques for synthesizing isolated single sites in zeolitic supports? What specific methods and examples are discussed?
23. Does the article evaluate metal encapsulation in zeolite supports for enhancing propane dehydrogenation catalyst stability? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
24. Does the article investigate catalyst preparation methods aimed at optimizing active phase dispersion? What specific techniques and examples are discussed?
25. Does the article utilize any in-situ characterization techniques to study working propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
26. Does the article employ advanced microscopy techniques to characterize metal-support interfaces in propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples and insights are provided?
27. Does the article use X-ray based techniques to probe oxidation state changes during propane dehydrogenation catalysis? What specific examples, data, and insights are revealed?
28. Does the article evaluate different reactor types like fixed beds, fluidized beds, or membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 