I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Doubly Decorated PlatinumGallium Intermetallics as Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation
Graphical Abstract
A catalyst design consisting of the double-decoration of nanoparticulate intermetallic PtGa with Pb and Ca was applied to produce an ultra-stable catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at a high temperature. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month.
Abstract
Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising chemical process that can satisfy the increasing global demand for propylene. However, the Pt-based catalysts that have been reported thus far are typically deactivated at 600C by side reactions and coke formation. Thus, such catalysts possess an insufficient life. Herein, we report a novel catalyst design concept, namely, the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics by Pb and Ca, which synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects on the catalyst stability, respectively. Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles. Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time.
Propylene is one of the most essential basic raw materials in the chemical industry that is suddenly scarce and demanded for the shale gas revolution.1-3 Among the propylene production processes, on-purpose propylene production via catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has attracted tremendous interest as a strategy for satisfying the growing global demand for propylene. Pt is widely utilized for alkane, including propane, dehydrogenation because of its high performance in CH scissions and relatively low performance in CC cleavage. However, a high reaction temperature (>600C) is required to obtain sufficient propylene yield because of the high endothermicity of PDH. Thus, the Pt-based catalysts are inevitably deactivated by coking and/or nanoparticle sintering at such a high temperature and must be regenerated in short cycles. In this context, the development of a perfectly stable catalytic system that does not require regeneration, even at >600C, is a great challenge, yet highly attractive for practical applications. Although several researchers have attempted to resolve this challenge, no catalyst has been reported, which exhibits month-long stability for PDH at >600C. Therefore, to achieve this milestone, an innovative catalyst design must be developed to completely inhibit the occurrences of undesired side reactions.
The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one. Regarding the geometric effect, a catalyst design that is based on the alloying of Pt is generally applied. Furthermore, PDH is a structure-insensitive reaction, whereas, side reactions, such as hydrogenolysis, isomerization, and polymerization, are structure-sensitive reactions.1-3 Moreover, since large PtPt ensembles are well-known activators of undesired side reactions, the dilution of such ensembles (also known as the ensemble effect) by alloying Pt with inactive metals such as Sn,4-6 Ga,7-9 In,10 and Zn11, 12 has been generally applied to prevent side reactions. The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited.8, 13, 14 J. Gong etal. designed an isolated Pt site utilizing a PtCu single-atom alloy (SAA), which exhibited high stability at 520C.13 However, the PtCu SAA catalyst was severely deactivated at 600C by nanoparticle sintering. Thus, materials possessing isolated Pt sites with high thermal stability should be utilized for continuous working at a high temperature (600C).8, 10, 15-21 In the previous study, we observed that an isolated Pt atom (single-atom-like Pt, Pt1) included in thermally stable intermetallic PtGa (Pt:Ga=1:1, Space group of P213)22 functioned as a highly selective and durable active site for PDH without sintering even at 600C.8 Although PtGa contains the isolated Pt1 and Pt3 ensembles at the most stable (111) surface, the latter can be selectively blocked by Pb decoration (Scheme1).
Scheme 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Catalyst design concept of the double decoration of the nanoparticulate intermetallic PtGa supported on SiO2. The synergy of the geometric and electronic effects is expected to greatly enhances propylene selectivity and the stability of the catalyst.
As well as the geometric property, the electronic properties of Pt contribute to the adsorption strength of propylene on the Pt site. For instance, an increase in the electron density of Pt induces its electrostatic repulsion to propylene, thereby promoting propylene desorption and improving stability.23-25 Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts. Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH. Crucially, the considered geometric and electronic effects for the double decoration concept should be compatible and not change the parent PtGa intermetallic structure. Scheme1 shows a possible approach that satisfies this guideline. The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites. Pb remains at the surface of PtGa and is not diffused into the PtGa bulk, even at a high temperature, because of its large atomic size and the high thermal stability of PtGa.8 Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent. Notably, such a cation that exhibits high ionization tendency is not easily reduced and alloyed with PtGa. Hence, the resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH.
In this study, we report a novel catalyst design concept, the double decoration of intermetallics, where PtGa was modified with Pb and Ca. This strategy enabled the synergy of the geometric and electronic promotion effects without changing the parent PtGa structure, thereby affording, for the first time, an innovative catalyst with outstandingly high catalytic stability in PDH for up to 1month at 600C.
First, we prepared and characterized PtGaCa/SiO2 to elucidate the effect of Ca. High-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image of PtGaCa and its particle size distribution are shown in FigureS1. The nanoparticles with a mean particle size of 2.40.5nm were uniformly distributed. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis revealed that Pt and Ga co-existed in each nanoparticle in a ratio of 1:1 (Figures1a and b). The quantitative analysis on the EDX maps revealed that the Ca ratio became much higher when the surrounding areas of nanoparticles were included (odd No.  even No., Figure1b). The high-resolution (HR) HAADF-STEM image (Figure1c) revealed an ordered crystal structure with interplanar distances of 1.98Å and 2.29Å and a dihedral angle (56), which agree with those of the (211) and (20 ) planes of intermetallic PtGa that were viewed along the [1 2] direction (Figure1d). These results indicate that Ca is present at the metal-support interface rather than on nanoparticles and does not change the bulk structure of intermetallic PtGa. To obtain further structural information, X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis was performed (refer to FigureS2 and TableS1 for the extended XAFS (EXAFS) oscillations and summarized curve fitting, respectively). PtGa scattering with 2.47Å was observed, and this is consistent with the interatomic distance of the closest Pt and Ga atoms in intermetallic PtGa (2.50Å).22 Similar results were also obtained for the undecorated PtGa/SiO2 catalyst (FigureS3 and TableS1). Furthermore, Figures1e and 1f show the Pt LIII- and Ga K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra of PtGa and PtGaCa, respectively. The absorption edge in Pt LIII-edge XANES shifted to lower energy than that of PtGa, indicating the electron donation from Ca to Pt upon Ca decoration.29 Contrarily, the white line intensity of Ga K-edge XANES slightly increased upon Ca decoration, indicating that a part of Ga had been oxidized. This is probably due to the formation of a GaOCa linkage and suggests the close contact of the PtGa nanoparticles with the CaO species. Note that the Ca decoration did not decrease Pt dispersion (TableS2); therefore, the active Pt sites are still open for reaction despite the close contact with CaO.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)Elemental maps of the Pt+Ga+Ca overlay in PtGaCa/SiO2. b)Atomic ratio of Pt, Ga, and Ca in areas designated by white/green circles in (a). c)High-angle annular dark field scanning transmission microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image of a single nanoparticle of the PtGaCa/SiO2 catalyst. d)Crystal structure of an intermetallic PtGa nanoparticle that was viewed along the [1 2] direction. e)Pt LIII- and f)Ga K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra of PtGa/SiO2 and PtGaCa/SiO2. g)HAADF-STEM image of PtGaCaPb/SiO2 and h)the corresponding elemental maps of Pt+Ga+Pb+Ca overlay. i)Atomic ratio of Pt, Ga, Ca, and Pb in areas designated by white/green circles in (g). j)Pt dispersion and the mean particle size of the Pt-based catalysts. k)Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra of CO that was adsorbed on PtGa, PtGaCa, and PtGaCaPb at 196C. The vertical dashed lines indicate the vibrational frequency, as observed in the previous study.8 l)Optimized structure of PtGa:A(111)OCaPb as a model of PtGaPt1 that was modified with CaO and Pb (left: side view, right: top view). m)Hirshfeld charges of the Pt atoms in (l). n)Ead of C2H4 adsorbed on the Pt1 site (1) of PtGa:A(111) with and without modifications by CaO and/or Pb. The inset Figure illustrates the adsorbed structure of C2H4 on PtGa:A(111)OCaPb.
Next, we prepared the doubly decorated PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst and thoroughly analyzed its structure. The HAADF-STEM-EDX analysis revealed that the particles size, PtGa elemental distribution, and the bulk crystal structure were similar to those of PtGaCa/SiO2 (2.20.5nm, Pt:Ga1:1, and intermetallic PtGa, respectively (Figures1gi, and S4)), thus confirming that the parent PtGa structure was retained (not changed). The formation of the intermetallic PtGa phase was also suggested by EXAFS curve fitting (TableS1: Pt-Ga, 2.46Å). The quantitative analysis on the EDX map revealed that the Ca ratio was higher when the surrounding areas was included (odd No.  even No.) as observed for PtGaCa, whereas the Pb ratio did not change (Figures1h,i, and S4). Therefore, unlike the Ca species, Pb atoms seem to be present mainly on the surface of PtGa. This result was also supported by the change in the dispersions of Pt, as shown in Figure1j and TableS2. Pt dispersion was not changed by Ca modification, although it was reduced by Pb deposition, which strongly suggests that Pb was deposited on some of the Pt sites,8 whereas Ca was not. A similar trend was observed in the distribution of Pb in PtGaPb (FigureS5 and TableS2). The electron density of Pt was higher in PtGaCaPb than in PtGaPb, as observed in Pt LIII-edge XANES (FigureS6). This result is consistent with the aforementioned trend between PtGa and PtGaCa. Similarly, the Ga K-edge XANES analysis revealed the slight oxidation of Ga probably because of its close contact with Ca (GaOCa interaction, FigureS6). These results indicate that PtGaPb can be modified by Ca similarly to PtGa. Thereafter, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy with CO adsorption was conducted at 196C to obtain information about the surface structure (Figure1k). The PtGaCa catalyst exhibited absorption bands, which were assignable to the stretching vibrations of CO that was adsorbed on the Pt3 sites, and a small shoulder that corresponds to CO on the Pt1 sites,8 which is similar to that of the PtGa catalyst. However, the peak position of PtGaCa was at a lower wavenumber than that of PtGa and indicated the electron donation from the interfacial CaO to the surface Pt. Conversely, only CO that was adsorbed on the Pt1 sites appeared in PtGaCaPb, thus supporting the blockage of Pt3 sites and the exposure of the Pt1 ones via Pb deposition. These results confirm that Ca located at the PtGaSiO2 interface, whereas Pb was deposited on the surface of the PtGa nanoparticles. Thus, the electronic and geometric effects of Ca and the deposited Pb, respectively, on the catalyst are compatible because of their different locations and roles therein. Thus, we have successfully synthesized the doubly decorated intermetallic compound catalyst, in which the electron-enriched Pt1 active sites are present according to the rational catalyst design (Scheme1).
Next, density functional theory calculations were conducted to elucidate the effect of Ca and Pb on the electronic structure of Pt and the adsorption property of the product, alkene. Figure1l shows the optimized model structure of the PtGa(111)Pt1 surface modified with CaO and Pb. The CaO moiety was situated on the Ga3 hollow site with a CaOGa linkage, while the Pb atom was placed on the hollow site of the Pt3 site. Similar model without Pb deposition was also considered. The surface Pt atoms became more negatively charged upon the CaO modification, indicating the electron transfer from CaO to Pt. The electron donation was prominent at the Pt1 site (1) (Figure1m, charge: < 0.1). Moreover, the adsorption of ethylene as a model light alkene was considered (Figure1n). Upon Ca modification, the adsorption energy (Ead) increased from 1.09 to 0.75eV, indicating promoted desorption, which is unfavorable to side reactions that form cokes. Furthermore, the density of states (DOS), which were projected on the d-orbitals of the model structures with and without CaO, were calculated (FigureS7). However, no significant difference was observed in the d-band structures, and this confirmed that the electron donation from Ca to Pt was crucial to promoting alkene desorption. Interestingly, the Pb deposition further increased Ead of ethylene (0.47eV), which is probably due to the steric hindrance by the large Pb atom.
Then, we tested the catalytic performances of the prepared catalysts for PDH. Figure2a shows the normalized C3H8 conversion, in which a considerably harsh condition was applied to investigate the stability in a short time (600C without co-feeding H2, refer to FiguresS8 and S9 for the original catalytic performances). PtGaCa, which possesses electron-enriched Pt atoms, exhibited higher C3H6 selectivity and stability compared with those of PtGa. Thus, tuning the electronic property of the intermetallics was effective in prolonging the lifetime of the catalyst. Pb deposition, as well as the Ca decoration, enhanced the stability of the catalyst.8 More importantly, the combination of Pb and Ca exerted a synergistic effect on the stability of the catalyst. The mean catalyst lifetime (reciprocal deactivation constant: kd1=τ=233h) of PtGaCaPb was much longer than that of PtGaPb (τ=149h), thus highlighting the further enhancement of the catalytic stability via the double decoration by CaPb, which afforded the electron-enriched Pt1. Regarding the Pb-containing catalysts, a short induction period (10h) was observed. This was probably due to the redistribution of excess Pb from a part of the Pt1 sites to the Ga sites or SiO2 support (FigureS10). Figure2b shows the amount of coke after 20h of reaction (refer to FiguresS11 and S12 for details). The trend of the amount of coke was very consistent with that of the catalytic stability. Notably, the catalytic performance of spent PtGaCaPb could be recovered by a simple regeneration process (O2H2 treatment, FigureS13). The spent catalyst after regeneration process (shown in FigureS13) was evaluated and no aggregation of nanoparticles was not observed even after long-term reaction and regeneration process (FigureS14), revealing the high thermal stability against nanoparticles sintering. Despite the excellent stability of PtGaCaPb, its catalytic activity gradually decreased probably because of the thermal cracking of propane (refer to FigureS15 and S16 for the temperature and concentration dependences of the thermal cracking, respectively). Afterward, the catalytic performance of PtGaCaPb/SiO2 was tested by co-feeding H2 (a typically applied condition for PDH2) to suppress the accumulation of coke. Co-feeding H2 drastically decreased coke formation (Figure2b), thereby improving the catalytic stability. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 was barely deactivated for 1 month at least, thus highlighting its much greater stability compared with those of previously reported catalysts (refer to TablesS3S6 and FiguresS17,S18 for comparisons). Noteworthily, the mean catalyst life (τ=3067h) was 2.6 times higher than the highest ever reported mean catalyst life (τ=1159h). Finally, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 was tested in PDH at 580C utilizing undiluted neat C3H8 (a more industrially favorable condition, FigureS19). Therein, PtGaCaPb achieved 36.6% initial conversion of C3H8 and retained 25.2% conversion after 10.5days of reaction (τ=465h), indicating its much greater stability than that of the recently reported stable catalyst (PtLa/mz-deGa with τ=380h).30 To the best of our knowledge, our PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst afforded the highest stability in PDH under different conditions. We also tested other basic additives or supports instead of Ca or CaSiO2, respectively, of which results are summarized in TableS7 (refer FiguresS2026 and TableS8 for details). However, none of them showed positive effects on the catalytic activity and stability of PtGa in PDH.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)Normalized C3H8 conversion during PDH at 600C (C3H8:He=2.5:5.0mLmin1). b)Amount of coke that was accumulated on the catalyst that was applied for PDH after 20h at 600C. c)Long-term stability test of PtGaCaPb/SiO2 for PDH at 600C (C3H8:H2:He=2.5:1.25:3.75mLmin1).
In conclusion, we designed and successfully synthesized doubly decorated intermetallics applying Ca and Pb to modify the geometric and electronic characters of PtGa. Pb was deposited on the three-fold Pt (and Ga) sites of the PtGa nanoparticles, whereas Ca was placed around the nanoparticles to impart them with an electron-enriched Pt1 site (an active site for highly selective PDH). The effects of these modifications were synergistic and remarkably improved the catalytic stability in PDH. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibited much superior stability to those of reported PDH catalysts (month-long stability, even at 600C) was achieved. No other basic additives and supports than Ca did not work as effective modifiers for PtGa intermetallics, highlighting the specific character of Ca for the double-decoration strategy. The catalyst design concept, which was established in this study exposes a new horizon to enhance the catalytic performance of intermetallics in alkane dehydrogenation.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 