<DOCUMENT>
Highly efficient and stable ordered mesoporous Ti-Al composite oxide catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene with CO2
Highlights
•
Ordered mesoporous Ti-Al composite oxides with highly homogenous dispersion of Ti.
•
Improved catalytic performance for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene with CO2.
•
The bridging oxygen in surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds as the critical active sites.
•
Surface chemisorbed oxygen species enhancing the reactivity of active sites.
Abstract
Ordered mesoporous Ti-Al composite oxides (OMTA-x) with variable Al/Ti atomic ratios have been prepared by a facile approach, and were evaluated as catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene with CO2 (CO2-ODEB). Compared to Al2O3-supported titania catalyst, the resultant catalysts OMTA-x displayed inspiringly improved catalytic performance. For example, catalyst OMTA-2 demonstrated notable activity up to 20 h with maximum styrene yield of 69.4%, even after five times regeneration by calcination. The superior catalytic performance of OMTA-x can be attributed to the highly homogenous dispersion of Ti, the obviously improved surface acidity and redox properties, and the excellent textural and structural properties. The bridging oxygen in the surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds with enhanced reactivity with H were concluded as the critical active sites for dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene, and new understanding for the development of TiO2-based catalysts with superior catalytic activity, stability, and reusability for CO2-ODEB was provided.
Graphical abstract
Download : Download high-res image (194KB)
Download : Download full-size image
1. Introduction
Catalytic dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene (EB) to styrene (ST) has a significant industrial impact, due to ST as one of the important monomers being extensively used for the production of various synthetic polymers materials. Compared to the catalytically direct EB dehydrogenation process in the presence of a large quantity of super-heated steam applied on the industrial scale, catalytically oxidative dehydrogenation of EB with CO2 as a mild oxidant (CO2-ODEB) is considered to be an attractive substitute and has attracted much attention, since it is a high efficiency, energy-saving, and environmentally benign process for ST production (Mukherjee et al., 2016). In the past few years, great efforts have been paid on the development of high-performance catalysts for CO2-ODEB. Oxides and doped/mixed oxides based on Fe, V, Co, Cr, Ce, Mn, and Ti with multiple oxidation states are found to be active for the titled reaction (Burri et al., 2006, Rao et al., 2009, Reddy et al., 2009, Balasamy et al., 2010, Zhang et al., 2015, Mukherjee et al., 2016, Wang et al., 2019, Yang et al., 2019, Kainthla et al., 2015). However, the severe deactivation is commonly encountered on most of the reported catalysts irrespective of the elemental compositions of catalysts used, which has been the key issue severely restricting the commercialization of CO2-ODEB.
Although the exact superficial reaction mechanism at the atomic level remains unclear enough hitherto, the Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism has been proposed and were exclusively discussed for CO2-ODEB over typical metal oxide catalysts, in which the surface lattice oxygen acting as the active sites firstly react with EB to produce ST and water, accompanied with the formation of oxygen vacancies; simultaneously, stoichiometric amount of formed oxygen vacancies being replenished by the reactive oxygen produced from the catalytic dissociation of CO2 molecules to complete the redox cycle (Wang et al., 2019, Murugan and Ramaswamy, 2007). A large amount of experimental investigations and theory calculations have confirmed that the doping of suitable metal heteroatoms can effectively enhance the reactivity of lattice oxygen (Fan et al., 2019, Saito et al., 2010, Kainthla et al., 2015, Mukherjee et al., 2016, McFarland and Metiu, 2013). However, the activation of CO2 as a mild oxidant and/or an O-transfer agent suffers from a noticeable challenge in heterogeneous catalysis because of the high kinetic inertness and the thermodynamic stability of CO2 molecule (Ansari and Park, 2012, Centi et al., 2013). As a result, the consumed surface lattice oxygen cannot be efficiently replenished, leading to the loss of active sites and the deactivation of catalysts (Mukherjee et al., 2016, Fan et al., 2019). Therefore, enhancing the activation ability of catalysts to CO2 to effectively ensure the reversibility of surface lattice oxygen plays a crucial function in determining the catalytic stability of metal oxide catalysts for CO2-ODEB.
TiO2, a low-cost, environmentally friendly, and reducible metal oxide, has a high degree of lattice oxygen anion displacement and abundant mobile oxygen content, owing to the presence of Ti ions in different oxidation states; thus, has been widely applied to activate CO2 (Padayachee et al., 2020, Lee et al., 2011, McFarland and Metiu, 2013). However, pure bulk TiO2 is found not very effective for CO2-ODEB because of its intrinsic disadvantages such as low specific surface area, easy phase transformation at high temperature, and poor mechanical strength (Li et al., 2000, Ren et al., 2004). Fortunately, these drawbacks could be effectively overcome via a combination with a host material possessing high thermal stability, high specific surface area, and non-reactivity with the dispersed phase of TiO2 (Kainthla et al., 2017). Ordered mesoporous alumina (OMA) is commonly considered as an ideal host owing to its uniform mesoporous channels, high specific surface area, and tunable pore size distribution (Yuan et al., 2008). Moreover, a strong evidence showed that the doping of alumina can stimulate the formation of Ti4+OAl3+ bonds, which plays significant roles in enhancing the strength of medium and strong acid sites (Yang et al., 2012), delaying the crystallization of TiO2 at high temperature (Morris et al., 2010, Yoon et al., 2020), and changing the surface oxygen species (Shao et al., 2020). Thus, the thoughtful combination of TiO2 and OMA allows the fabrication of a new TiO2-based catalyst with interesting textural, structural, surface, and redox properties, which is expected to provide a substantial catalytic performance boost for CO2-ODEB. However, it is difficult to achieve the ordered mesoporous Ti-Al composite oxide with high degree atomic mixing via the traditional preparation method because of the great difference in hydrolysis and condensation behavior for Ti and Al precursors (Morris et al., 2010, Oveisi et al., 2010). Consequently, the obtained mesoporous TiO2-Al2O3 catalysts generally display a relatively low catalytic activity for CO2-ODEB (Li et al., 2000, Castro et al., 2012).
Recently, we have reported a facile solvothermal-assisted evaporation-induced self-assembly (SA-EISA) method for the preparation of OMA (Pan et al., 2018). Compared to the conventional EISA method, SA-EISA approach can effectively reduce the influences of solvent evaporation conditions on the synthesis of OMA, and the obtained OMA exhibits higher pore volume, specific surface area, and thermal stability. Inspired by our previous work, herein, ordered mesoporous Ti-Al composite oxides (OMTA-x) with a variety of Al/Ti atomic ratios were synthesized via the facile SA-EISA route. The obtained OMTA-x materials were used as catalysts for CO2-ODEB under an industrially suitable vapor phase conditions. The effects of introducing amount of Ti on the physicochemical properties and catalytic performance of catalysts OMTA-x were investigated in detailed. By correlating the catalytic performance of catalysts OMTA-x with their surface composition and microstructure, the critical active sites, reaction pathway, and deactivation cause were further clarified. A combined effect from the uniform mesoporous channels, excellent textural properties, improved surface acidity and redox properties, and highly homogenous dispersion of surface active sites was proposed to understand the superior catalytic activity, stability, and reusability of catalysts OMTA-x for the titled reaction.
2. Experimental
2.1. Chemicals
Triblock copolymer F127 (EO106PO70EO106) was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. Titanium isopropoxide, aluminum isopropoxide, citric acid, anhydrous ethanol, and EB were purchased from Tianjin Chemical Reagent Co.. All these analytical grade chemicals were used as received.
2.2. Preparation of catalysts OMTA-x
In a typical synthesis, 2.4 g of 37 wt% concentrated hydrochloric acid, 0.6 g of citric acid, and 4.8 g of F127 were completely dissolved in 30 mL anhydrous ethanol, successively. Then, the required amounts of aluminum isopropoxide and titanium isopropoxide were slowly added into the above solution under stirring. The total quantity of Al and Ti precursors was kept constant (0.024 mol), and the atomic ratio of Al to Ti was adjusted accordingly. After vigorously stirring for 24 h at a sealed condition, the clear reaction solution was transferred into an autoclave for solvothermal treatment at 60 °C for 24 h. The resultant reaction sol was transferred into a dish and underwent solvent evaporation at 60 °C for 24 h followed by a thermal condensation treatment at 100 °C for 24 h. The final solid products were calcined at 600 °C for 5 h to remove the organic template and were named as OMTA-x, where × stands for the atomic ratio of Al to Ti in the initial synthesis solution.
As a reference, Al2O3-supported titania catalyst with an Al/Ti atomic ratio of 2 was prepared by a traditional impregnation method. The support OMA was synthesized following the same procedure as that of catalysts OMTA-x excluding the addition of titanium precursor, and then was added into 30 mL anhydrous ethanol solution dissolved a required amount of titanium isopropoxide. The excess solvent was slowly evaporated at 60 °C with continuous stirring. Afterward, the resultant solid was thermally condensed at 100 °C for 24 h and then calcined at 600 °C for 5 h, and named as Ti/OMA-2. In addition, the pure TiO2 catalyst with mesoporous structure (Fig. S1) and high specific surface area (91 m2/g) was prepared via the same method as that of catalyst OMTA-x excluding the addition aluminum precursor and concentrated hydrochloric acid, and named as MT.
2.3. Catalyst characterization
Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms were measured using a Quantachrome analyzer at 77 K. The specific surface areas were calculated according to the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method, the pore size distributions were determined by the Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) method using the adsorption branches of the isotherms, and the total pore volumes were calculated according to the adsorption amount of nitrogen at a relative pressure of 0.99.
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was performed on a JEOL JEM-2100F microscope attached with an energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectrometer. Elemental mapping measurements were taken on a Hitachi Model S-4800 high-resolution fluorescence-emission scanning electron microscopy instrument operated under an acceleration voltage of 25 kV. Power X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded on a Shimadzu XRD-6000 diffractometer using Ni-filtered Cu/Kα radiation. Raman spectra were collected under ambient conditions on a Renishaw Via reflex Raman spectrometer using the 532 nm laser line for the spectra excitation.
X-ray photoelectron spectral (XPS) were obtained under a high vacuum environment on an ESCALAB 250 spectrometer with an Al Kα source (1486.6 eV). The binding energy was calibrated referencing to the C 1s peak at 286.4 eV.
The reducibility of catalysts was evaluated by the hydrogen temperature-programmed reduction (H2-TPR) on a Micromeritics AutoChemII 2920 instrument. Before each H2-TPR measurement, 100 mg of the sample was pretreated at 300 °C in an Ar flow of 30 mL/min for 1 h to remove the impurities adsorbed in the sample. After cooling to 100 °C, the sample was exposed to a reducing gas (10% H2-Ar) at a flow rate of 20 mL/min and then heated to 750 °C at a heating rate of 10 °C/min. The hydrogen consumption was monitored by using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD).
The acidity of catalysts was determined by the temperature-programmed desorption of chemisorbed NH3 (NH3-TPD) using Micromeritics ChemiSorb 2720 analyzer connected with a TCD. Before desorption, the catalyst was pretreated at 300 °C for 1 h followed by cooled to 100 °C in a He flow of 25 mL/min. A 10% NH3-He flow (25 mL/min) was used to saturate catalyst with NH3 for 30 min and then replaced with a pure He flow of 25 mL/min to facilitate the desorption of physisorbed NH3 for 1 h. Later, the NH3-TPD was performed from 100 °C to 600 °C at a heating rate of 10 °C/min, and the desorbed NH3 was monitored with TCD.
The deposited coke over the used catalysts was measured by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) on a Mettler Toledo TGA/DSC instrument in air with a heating rate of 5 °C/min.
2.4. Catalytic reaction
For CO2-ODEB, the catalytic performance of Ti-Al binary oxide catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2 was evaluated using a fixed bed reactor at atmospheric pressure. 0.3 g of catalyst was loaded at the center of the reactor in between quartz wool plugs. The reaction was carried out at 600 °C using CO2 (20 mL/min) as the soft oxidant, and EB was introduced by a microfeeder pump at a feed rate of 0.3 mL/h with a molar ratio of CO2 to EB of 20. The condensed liquid products (including ST, benzene, and toluene) and unreacted EB were collected at regular intervals in an ice cold trap, and were analyzed on an Agilent 7890B gas chromatograph equipped with a flame ionization detector (FID) and a HP-5 capillary column. The regeneration of the used catalyst was implemented at 600 °C under air flow (30 mL/min). Additionally, the direct dehydrogenation of EB was also conducted over the best catalyst under a N2 flow of 20 mL/min to estimate the beneficial role of CO2.
To calculate turnover frequency (TOF) defined as the number of EB molecules converted per surface Ti atom per hour, CO2-ODEB experiments were performed to achieve about 20 % EB conversion by only increasing the feed rate of EB from 0.3 mL/h to 2.4 mL/h. The number of surface Ti atoms was calculated from the result of XPS analysis.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Catalyst characterization
The nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and the corresponding mesoporous size distribution curves of support OMA and catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2 prepared with different methods are shown in Fig. 1. The detailed textural properties of these samples are summarized in Table 1. As can be seen in Fig. 1, different from catalyst Ti/OMA-2 displaying an inconspicuous hysteresis loop and an indiscernible mesoporous size distribution, both support OMA and catalysts OMTA-x displayed a typical IV-type isotherm with a H1-type hysteresis loop and a steep capillary condensation step, typical characteristic of ordered mesoporous materials with uniform cylindrical mesoporous channels (Yuan et al., 2008, Pan et al., 2018). It is noteworthy that with the increase in the Ti introducing amount (the decrease in the Al/Ti atomic ratios), a clear shift to a higher relative pressure in the capillary condensation steps of catalysts OMTA-x (except for OMTA-1) can be observed (Fig. 1a), representing a substantial increase in the average mesoporous size from 5.70 nm to 6.71 nm (Fig. 1b and Table 1). The increase in the average mesoporous size of catalysts OMTA-x confirms that a large amount of Ti atoms have been homogenously incorporated into the mesoporous framework of alumina to form the TiOAl bonds, due to the longer bond length of TiO than that of AlO. In addition, as shown in Table 1, catalysts OMTA-x showed distinctly higher specific surface areas and larger pore volumes than those of support OMA and catalyst Ti/OMA-2. Among all catalysts OMTA-x, catalyst OMTA-2 exhibited the largest specific surface area, pore volume, and average mesoporous diameter, which are 292 m2·g−1, 0.45 cm3·g−1, and 6.71 nm, respectively.
Download : Download high-res image (294KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 1. N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms and the corresponding mesoporous size distribution curves of support OMA and catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2.
Table 1. The physicochemical properties of support OMA and mesoporous Ti-Al binary oxide catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2 prepared with different methods.a.
Sample a (nm) SBET (m2·g−1) Vp (cm3·g−1) Dp (nm)
OMA 8.09 245 0.35 5.70
OMTA-6 8.22 254 0.36 5.72
OMTA-3 8.50 259 0.36 6.23
OMTA-2 8.79 292 0.45 6.71
OMTA-1 8.94 262 0.38 5.72
Ti/OMA-2 8.38 89 0.20 --b
a
: a, the unit cell parameter, SBET, the specific surface area; Vp, the total pore volume; DP, the average mesoporous diameter.
b
: The average mesoporous diameter of catalyst Ti/OMA-2 is not calculated due to its indiscernible mesoporous size distribution.
TEM observations provide direct evidence that catalysts OMTA-x possess ordered mesoporous organization. Taking catalyst OMTA-2 for example, the highly regular and parallel cylindrical mesopores along the [1 1 0] orientation and hexagonally packed honeycomb-like mesopores along the [1 0 0] orientation, were visible in Fig. 2a and b, respectively, indicating that catalyst OMTA-2 has an ordered 2D hexagonal mesostructure. When three different positions were randomly selected for energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis, the calculated Al/Ti atomic ratios are 1.9, 2.0, and 2.2, respectively, all of which are similar to the theoretical atomic ratio of Al to Ti (2.0) for the synthesis of OMTA-2. This indicates that almost all Ti species existing in the initial synthesis solution have been ultimately homogenously incorporated into the mesoporous walls of catalyst OMTA-2 at an atomic level. This expected distribution of Ti and Al throughout the whole sample instead of the appearance of separated TiO2 phase was further verified by the element mapping images (Fig. 3). For two randomly scanned regions, highly uniformly distributed Al, O, and Ti were found. By calculating, the atomic ratios of Al to Ti in such two different regions are 2.0 and 2.1, respectively.
Download : Download high-res image (352KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 2. TEM images of catalyst OMTA-2 viewed along the (1 1 0) (a) and (1 0 0) (b) orientations, respectively. The inset in b is the corresponding SAED pattern.
Download : Download high-res image (545KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 3. Elemental analysis mapping showing the distribution of Al (a, d), O (b, e), and Ti (c, f) for two different regions of catalyst OMTA-2.
Powder XRD analysis was performed to determine the mesostructural and crystal properties of catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2. As can be seen from Fig. 4a, similar to support OMA, all catalysts OMTA-x displayed a strong diffraction peak and one weak peak centered in a 2θ range of 0.5° to 5°. According to the TEM observations (Fig. 2), such two diffraction peaks can be indexed to the (1 0 0) reflection and the overlapping of the (1 1 0) and (2 0 0) reflections, respectively, indicating that the catalysts OMTA-x possess an ordered 2D hexagonal mesoporous arrangement. Interestingly, compared to the support OMA, the catalysts OMTA-x (except for OMTA-1) displayed relatively narrower full widths at half-maximum as estimated from the (1 0 0) diffraction peak. This suggests that the TiOH species from the hydrolysis of Ti precursor can participate in and promote the cooperative self-assembly between triblock copolymer F127 molecules and the hydrolyzed Al-OH species to construct a much more ordered mesostructure, taking into account that the total introducing amount of inorganic precursors (Ti and Al) for the synthesis of catalysts OMTA-x is the same as that of support OMA. Such conclusion can account for the significantly increased specific surface area and pore volume for catalysts OMTA-x, as compared with those of support OMA (Table 1). Moreover, for catalysts OMTA-x, with the increase in the introducing amount of Ti species, a distinct shift toward to lower 2θ angle in the peak position of (1 0 0) reflection is discerned, representing a gradually increased interplanar spacing (d100) values. Through calculation using the equation of a = 2d100/31/2, the unit cell parameters (a) of 8.09, 8.22, 8.50, 8.79, and 8.94 nm can be obtained for OMA, OMTA-6, OMTA-3, OMTA-2, and OMTA-1, respectively (Table 1). The increase in the d100 and a values of OMTA-x with an increase in the introduced Ti amount once again manifests that a large amount of Ti atoms with larger atomic radius than that of Al have been highly homogenously incorporated into the mesoporous framework of alumina to form the TiOAl bonds.
Download : Download high-res image (311KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 4. Small- (a) and wide- (b) angle XRD patterns of support OMA and catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2 prepared with different methods.
Different from catalysts OMTA-x and support OMA, catalyst Ti/OMA-2 exhibited an obviously broadened (1 0 0) diffraction peak and a relatively low signal-to-noise ratio in its small-angle XRD pattern (Fig. 4a). Additional, the weak diffraction peaks at 25.5, 38.0, 48.1, 53.9, 55.0, and 63.0° were clearly detected in the wide-angle XRD pattern of catalyst Ti/OMA-2 (Fig. 4b), which can be easily indexed as the crystal planes of (1 0 1), (0 0 4), (2 0 0), (1 0 5), (2 1 1), and (2 0 4) for anatase phase of TiO2 (JCPDS 00–001-0562). The average crystallite size calculated based on the (1 0 1) plane and Scherrer’s equation is about 14 nm, which is larger than the average mesoporous size (5.70 nm) of support OMA. The presence of segregated phase of TiO2 with a high density can be responsible for the remarkably decrease in the specific surface area and pore volume of catalyst Ti/OMA-2 (Table 1). In contrast to catalyst Ti/OMA-2, no diffraction peak associated with crystalline TiO2 is detected in the wide-angle XRD patterns of catalysts OMTA-x (Fig. 4b), indicating the highly homogenous dispersion or amorphous nature of TiOx species.
To ascertain the microstructure of TiOx species over catalysts OMTA-x, Raman spectrum measurement was performed. Fig. 5 presents a comparison of the obtained Raman spectra of catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2. The strong bands at 143, 397, 516, and 639 cm−1, assigned to the Eg, B1g, B1g/A1g, and Eg modes of anatase phase of TiO2, respectively (Zhou et al., 2011, Sarkar et al., 2017), were obvious in the Raman spectrum of catalyst Ti/OMA-2. Different from catalyst Ti/OMA-2, no characteristic Raman band associated with crystalline phase of TiO2 or Al2O3 was detectable for catalysts OMTA-x (x > 1). Such result confirms that Ti and Al species are highly homogenously dispersed within the amorphous mesoporous walls of catalysts OMTA-x (x > 1) (the inset in Fig. 2b). However, when the catalyst OMTA-1 was concerned, the weak bands of anatase TiO2 were discerned in its Raman spectrum (Fig. 5). The broadening of the bands combined with the weak peak intensity reveals a remarkable reduction in the TiO2 crystalline size (Shao et al., 2020, Wang et al., 2019), compared to that of segregated anatase TiO2 existing over the catalyst Ti/OMA-2. Taking into consideration that catalyst OMTA-1 exhibited a larger unit cell parameter and smaller mesoporous size than those of other catalysts OMTA-x (Table 1), it can be conclusive that during the high temperature calcination process, the diffusion and sintering of the abundant Ti atoms distributed on the near surface of as-synthesized OMTA-1 would result in the formation of micro-crystalline of TiO2, and the formed micro-crystalline of TiO2 could be mainly located the mesoporous surface of OMTA-1.
Download : Download high-res image (142KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 5. Raman spectra of catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2.
The chemical state of surface elements over catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2 were detected using XPS measurement. The Ti 2p and O 1s XPS spectra of different catalysts are presented in Fig. 6a and b, respectively, and the surface elemental composition calculated by normalizing peak areas of Al 2p, Ti 2p, and O 1s core level spectra is given in Table 2. As seen in Fig. 6a, all catalysts displayed a similarity in the Ti 2p XPS spectra. For catalyst Ti/OMA-2, two peaks at binding energies of 458.4 eV and 464.1 eV, assigned to Ti4+ 2p1/2 and Ti4+ 2p2/3 of TiO2, respectively (Shao et al., 2020, Feng et al., 2018), were observed. The asymmetric peak pattern suggests a coexisting of Ti4+ and Ti3+ on the surface of Ti/OMA-2 (Shao et al., 2020). Different from catalyst Ti/OMA-2, an almost symmetrical peak pattern along with a district shift toward a higher binding energy of Ti 2p peaks (the maximum peak value at 458.8 eV) was detected for catalysts OMTA-x, signifying that almost all Ti species existing on the surface of these catalysts in a similar chemical state (Ti4+). Taking the catalyst OMTA-2 for example, after deconvolution, the calculated proportion of Ti3+ was only 2.6%, which is much lower than that (9.8%) of catalyst Ti/OMA-2. Notably, for catalysts OMTA-x, the measured surface Al/Ti atomic ratios were 1–2.5 times higher than theoretical atomic ratios (x), and with the increase in the introducing amount of Ti species, the difference between measured Al/Ti atomic ratio and theoretical Al/Ti atomic ratio become more obvious, along with the clearly higher atomic content of surface oxygen than the stoichiometric value (Table 2). These observations could be attributed to the highly homogeneous incorporation of Ti atoms into alumina mesoporous framework confirmed by the results from N2 physisorption, XRD, and Raman analyses (Fig. 1, Fig. 4, Fig. 5), leading to the partly Ti species were highly homogenously dispersed on the surface of catalysts OMTA-x. The formation of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds with excess positive charge contributed to more oxygen species chemisorbed on the surface of catalysts OMTA-x.
Download : Download high-res image (320KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 6. XPS spectra of Ti 2p (a) and O 1s (b) for catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2.
Table 2. Composition of surface Al, O, and Ti as measured by XPS spectra for mesoporous Ti-Al binary oxide catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2 prepared with different methods.
Sample Al (mol %) O (mol %) Ti (mol %) Al/Ti O-2/(O-1 + O-2 + O-3) (%) O-2 (mol %)
Ti/OMA-2 17.76 48.53 7.99 2.2 11.60 5.63
OMTA-1 16.76 49.64 7.14 2.3 24.14 11.98
OMTA-2 19.70 50.69 6.03 3.2 24.37 12.84
OMTA-3 19.79 49.60 4.91 4.0 19.90 9.87
OMTA-6 24.06 49.75 3.61 6.7 8.94 4.45
As for the O 1s XPS spectra of these catalysts, more complicated profiles were observed in Fig. 6b, due to the overlapping contribution of oxygen species bound to Ti and Al. It is accepted that the peak at lower binding energy (EB = 529.0–530.4 eV) can be ascribed to the oxygen atoms mainly belonged to TiO bonds, while the other one at higher binding energy (EB = 531.1–532.0 eV) can be attributed to the oxygen atoms bound to Al, judging from the difference in the electronegativity of Ti and Al (Reddy et al., 2001, Kim et al., 2010). As seen in Fig. 6b, for catalyst Ti/OMA-2, two broad bands centered at 529.8 and 531.7 eV are noticeable, which could be divided into three peaks identifying three types of oxygen species as the oxygen bound to Ti (labeled as O-1), the surface chemisorbed oxygen (labeled as O-2, e.g. O2−, O22−, and O−) (Wang et al., 2018, Wang et al., 2018, Wang et al., 2019), and the oxygen belonged to AlO bonds (labeled as O-3), respectively. The appearance of strong peak centered at 529.7 eV verifies that the oxygen species bound to Ti are mainly the lattice oxygen (Shao et al., 2020, Wang et al., 2019), which can be attributed to the formation of anatase TiO2 (Fig. 4b and Fig. 5). Different from catalyst Ti/OMA-2, one broad band superimposed with an unresolved shoulder peak was observed in the O 1s XPS spectra of catalysts OMTA-x (except for catalyst OMTA-1 exhibiting tow splitting peaks centered at 530.3 and 531.7 eV, respectively), which can also be fitted into three separate peaks identifying the O-1, O-2, and O-3, respectively. It is noticeable that compared with the O1s XPS spectrum of catalyst Ti/OMA-2, a distinct shift toward to higher binding energy (from 529.7 to 530.3 eV) in the position of peak assigned to O-1 was observed in the curve-fitting O 1s XPS spectra of catalysts OMTA-x, suggesting a significant reduction in the electron density of oxygen. Such observation could also be used to support the conclusion that Ti atoms have been homogenously incorporated into the mesoporous framework of alumina to form the TiOAl bonds, due to the lower electron density of Al compared with that of Ti. More importantly, the formation of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds will directly result in a remarkable increase in the concentration of surface chemisorbed oxygen species (O-2), determining by the integral area proportion of different oxygen species (Table 2). For catalysts OMTA-x, with the increase in the introducing amount of Ti, the content of surface chemisorbed oxygen species gradually increased from 4.45% to 12.84%. However, further increasing the introducing amount of Ti, the formation of surface anatase microcrystals (Fig. 5) leading to an increased content of the lattice oxygen could account for the lower content of surface chemisorbed oxygen over catalyst OMTA-1 than that of catalyst OMTA-2.
Since the surface chemisorbed oxygen can be considered as a readily reducible oxygen species and their presence can remarkably enhance the mobility of surface lattice oxygen (Wang et al., 2019, Jampaiah et al., 2016), here, H2-TPR analysis was performed to evaluate the reducibility of catalysts Ti/OMA-2 and OMTA-x. As shown in Fig. 7, for all Ti-Al binary oxide catalysts, a broad reduction peak with a shoulder on the lower temperature side was observed, which could be attributed to the reduction of surface TiOx species and the remove of surface chemisorbed oxygen (Fig. 6b), respectively. For catalyst Ti/OMA-2, the low H2 consumption and high reduction temperature (about 750 °C) was observed, suggesting a less reducibility of anatase TiO2 nanocrystal mixed with OMA (Fig. 4b). In contrast, catalysts OMTA-x displayed an obviously improved reducibility, indicating that the surface bridging oxygen in the Ti4+OAl3+ bonds are much easier to be removed upon H2 reduction, as compared with surface lattice oxygen of TiO2. As seen from the H2-TPR profiles of catalysts OMTA-x, with increasing the introducing amount of Ti species, the temperature at the maximum for the reduction peak of surface TiOx species was continuously decreased from 712 °C to 645 °C, accompanied with a gradual increased H2 consumption. For the special catalyst OMTA-1, an extra shoulder appeared around 730 °C was visible, which can be ascribed to the remove of surface lattice oxygen of TiO2 micro-crystalline existing on the surface of catalyst OMTA-1 (Fig. 5). Based on the results from Raman (Fig. 5) and XPS analyses (Fig. 6 and Table 2), the H2-TPR results of catalysts OMTA-x could be well understood. During H2 reduction process, the surface chemisorbed oxygen species mainly derived from the formation of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds can be firstly removed, and the consumption of the surface chemisorbed oxygen species can effectively enhance the mobility of bridging oxygen in surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds and promote the reduction of surface TiOx species. As a result, with the increase in the introducing amount of Ti, the formation of more surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds contributes to a higher concentration of surface chemisorbed oxygen species (Fig. 6b and Table 2), which can be responsible for the gradually decreased reduction temperature and increased H2 consumption for catalysts OMTA-x.
Download : Download high-res image (130KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 7. H2-TPR profiles of catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2.
Temperature-programmed desorption of chemically adsorbed ammonia was employed to evaluate the surface acidity of support OMA and catalysts Ti/OMA-2 and OMTA-x, and the obtained NH3-TPD profiles of these samples are depicted in Fig. 8. It can be seen from Fig. 8 that all samples showed a broad and asymmetric desorption peak of NH3 ranging from 130 °C to 500 °C, signifying a wide distribution of acid strength. According to the difference in the desorption temperature of chemisorbed NH3, the acidic sites could be categorized into three classes regarded as the weak (I), medium (II), and strong (III) acid sites, and their corresponding temperature regions of NH3 desorption are 150–250, 250–350, and above 350 °C, respectively (Jiang et al., 2015, Arena et al., 1998). To compare the distribution of acidic sites, the Gaussian peak fitting method was used for the deconvolution of NH3-TPD profiles (Fig. 8), and fitted peak areas per unit mass (Table S1) can be used to semi quantitatively calculate the amount of different acid sites. As can be seen in Fig. 8, the NH3-TPD profile of support OMA exhibited two fitted desorption peaks with maximal temperature at 219 and 290 °C, respectively. This indicates that the surface of support OMA is rich in weak and medium acid sites (Pillai et al., 1991, Beutel et al., 2017). Different from support OMA, an extra fitting peak corresponding to the strong acid sites can be clearly observed in the NH3-TPD profiles of catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2, revealing that the introduction of TiOx species favors for the generation of strong acid sites. Compared to support OMA, catalysts Ti/OMA-2 showed a lower desorption amount of NH3 (Fig. 8 and Table S1). The formation of segregated anatase TiO2 (Fig. 4b and Fig. 5), which possesses a higher density than those of support OMA, can be responsible for the decrease in the surface acid amount for catalyst Ti/OMA-2. In contrast, catalysts OMTA-x displayed a much higher desorption amount of NH3 than those of catalyst Ti/OMA-2 and support OMA (Fig. 8). Deconvolution of the NH3-TPD profiles of catalysts OMTA-x indicates that the increased amount of desorbed NH3 mainly come from the acid sites with medium and strong acid strength, and the amount of such two acid sites increases with the increase in the introducing amount of Ti (Table S1). The increment in the acid amount and acid strength can be attributed to the formation of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds, which are known to generate four-fold coordinated Ti4+ Lewis acid sites with enhanced acidic strength (Pillai et al., 1991, Beutel et al., 2017, Jiang et al., 2015, Yang et al., 2012). However, further increasing the introducing amount of Ti, the formation of surface micro-crystalline of TiO2 (Fig. 5) could be responsible for the reduction in the amount of acid sites for catalyst OMTA-1, as compared with catalyst OMTA-2 (Fig. 8 and Table S1).
Download : Download high-res image (223KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 8. NH3-TPD profiles of support OMA and catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2.
3.2. Catalytic performance
Vapor phase oxidative dehydrogenation of EB to ST with CO2 (CO2-ODEB) at 600 °C under atmospheric pressure has been carried out to investigate the catalytic performance of catalysts OMTA-x, and the samples Ti/OMA-2, MT, and OMA for comparison. Fig. 9 showed the initial catalytic activity and ST selectivity over different catalysts. The initial catalytic activity is indexed by the conversion of EB after 1 h of reaction. As can be seen in Fig. 9, the support OMA and catalyst MT are almost inactive for the conversion of EB with CO2. In contrast, with the introduction of TiOx species into OMA, the obtained catalysts OMTA-x and Ti/OMA-2 exhibited remarkably increased catalytic activity and ST yield. In the case of catalysts OMTA-x, the initial catalytic activity was distinctly increased with an increase in the Ti content; however, further increasing the introducing amount of Ti, a slight decrease in the initial conversion of EB was observed. The highest initial conversion of EB of 68.6% along with a maximum ST yield of 67.2% was obtained over catalyst OMTA-2. The significantly improved catalytic activity for catalyst OMTA-2 could be attributed to a combined effect from the uniform mesoporous channels (Fig. 1, Fig. 2, Fig. 4), the large specific surface area and pore volume (Table 1), the highly homogenous dispersion of Ti species (Fig. 3, Fig. 5), and the formation of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds (Fig. 6, Fig. 7, Fig. 8), which exert significant influences on the EB adsorption and activation, the increasing surface reactive sites, and the improvement in mass transport. When the catalyst Ti/OMA-2 was concerned, the initial conversion of EB and ST yield were only 43.9% and 43.0%, respectively. The significantly poor catalytic activity of catalyst Ti/OMA-2 can be reasonably attributed to its mixed phases of alumina and crystalline TiO2 with poor structural and textural properties as well as low dispersion of active sites (Fig. 1, Fig. 4, Fig. 5). In addition, the formation of microcrystal TiO2 (Fig. 5) can be responsible for the slight drop in the catalytic activity of catalyst OMTA-1, in comparison with catalyst OMTA-2.
Download : Download high-res image (333KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 9. The effects of catalyst composition and preparation method on its initial catalytic activity and styrene selectivity for CO2-ODEB.
To better reflect the difference in the intrinsic activity per site for catalysts Ti/OMA-2 and OMTA-x, the turnover frequency (TOF) was calculated based on the EB conversion under iso-conversion conditions (Table S2). For catalysts OMTA-1, OMTA-2, OMTA-3, and OMTA-6, the calculated TOFs are 12.23, 15.21, 16.88, and 13.81 h−1, respectively, all which are prominently higher than that (4.49 h−1) of catalyst Ti/OMA-2. It is reasonably accepted that two kinds of bridging oxygen bonds, that is, Ti4+OTi4+ and Ti4+OAl3+, are present on the surface of TiAl binary oxide catalysts. For catalysts OMTA-x, the gradually decreased TOF accompanying the decrease in the atomic ratio of Al to Ti (x) indicates that the surface Ti4+OTi4+ bonds play a minor role for the catalytic activity, taking into account that more surface Ti4+OTi4+ bonds were formed by increasing the Ti loading (Fig. 5). By contrast, the formation of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bond plays conclusively a decisive role for titled reaction. Such conclusion can well account for the higher initial EB conversion over catalyst Ti/OMA-2 than that (21.2%) of catalyst MT (Fig. 9), considering that the surface Ti4+OAl3+ bond could be formed over catalyst Ti/OMA-2 and the catalyst Ti/OMA-2 has a similar specific surface area to that (91 m2/g) of catalyst MT. In addition, the generation of segregated phase of TiO2 with a high density and a poor catalytic activity results in a significant reduction in the specific surface area for catalyst Ti/OMA-2 (Table 1), which makes it clear that catalyst Ti/OMA-2 displayed a higher areal rate (the catalytic activity per m2) than those of catalysts OMTA-x.
To elucidate the important role of CO2 in dehydrogenation reaction of EB to ST, time on steam (TOS) study was performed over the representative catalyst OMTA-2 under both CO2 and N2 flows, respectively. As shown in the part a of Fig. 10, the effect of reaction atmosphere on the ST selectivity was negligible, and over 97.8% ST selectively over catalyst OMTA-2 was achieved whether CO2 or N2 was used. However, the utilization of CO2 contributed to a significant influence on the catalytic activity and stability of catalyst OMTA-2 (Fig. 10b). The initial EB conversion over catalyst OMTA-2 in N2 atmosphere was 52.5%, which increased to 68.6 % in the presence of CO2 along with remarkable increase in the ST yield from 51.1% to 67.2% (Fig. 10). More importantly, after the first hour of reaction, a stable EB conversion was observed in the presence of CO2, which decreased slowly from 70.5 % to 53.6% even after 20 h on steam (Fig. 10b). In contrast, a severe deactivation can be found in the absence of CO2, i.e., EB conversion rapidly decreased from 52.5% to 39.9% within a TOS of 7 h, and then slowly decreased to 26.6% (Fig. 10b). To quantitatively compare the deactivation extent of catalyst OMTA-2 under different reaction atmospheres, the relative deactivation rate (R), defined as R=(X1-Xn)/X1
100% (where X1 and Xn stand for the conversion of EB at TOS of 1 and n h, respectively), were calculated. For catalyst OMTA-2, the R in CO2 flow almost linearly increased, which is distinctly lower than that under N2 atmosphere (Fig. S2). Generally, the byproduct polystyrene from the polymerization of titled product ST easily transform into the coke during the high temperature reaction process; consequently, it is inevitable that the produced coke covers the catalytic active sites or blocks the pores, which can be considered as one of the main causes for the deactivation of catalysts applied in the CO2-ODEB (Zhang et al., 2015). After 20 h of reaction, the total amount of coke deposited on the surface of catalyst OMTA-2 in the presence of CO2 was 24.2%, which is slightly lower than that (26.3%) in the absence of CO2 (Fig. S3). By calculating, the rate of coke deposition, defined as the mass of deposited coke for converting per unit amount of EB per hour, are 0.16 and 0.29 mg·mmol−1·h−1 for catalyst OMTA-2 under CO2 and N2 atmosphere, respectively. This indicates that the introduction of CO2 is favor for the elimination of the deposited coke to efficiently retard the deactivation of catalyst OMTA-2.
Download : Download high-res image (215KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 10. Styrene selectivity (a) and ethylbenzene conversion (b) over fresh and fifth regenerated catalyst OMTA-2 in the presence and absence of CO2.
Repeated runs of the regenerated catalyst OMTA-2 for CO2-ODEB have been carried out to estimate its reusability, wherein, the catalyst OMTA-2 after every 10 h of reaction was calcined at 600 °C for 3 h in air for its regeneration. Fig. 11 presents the initial EB conversion and ST selectivity over catalyst OMTA-2 underwent multiple cycles of regeneration. It can be seen from Fig. 11 that over regenerated catalyst OMTA-2, neither EB conversion nor ST selectivity changed significantly in the repeated runs. Even after the fifth regeneration, the initial conversion of EB was still 62.9% with a ST selectivity of 97.9%. From Fig. 10, it is interesting to note that the catalytic performance observed over the catalyst OMTA-2 after the fifth regeneration is very similar to the fresh one upto 20 h, although the conversion of EB is slightly lower than that of fresh one. Even so, the regenerated OMTA-2 displayed significantly higher catalytic activity and stability for CO2-ODEB than those of TiO2-based catalysts reported in the previous literatures (Li et al., 2000, Castro et al., 2012, Diao et al., 2018, Reddy and Khan, 2005, Jiang et al., 2009, Burri et al., 2015).
Download : Download high-res image (343KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 11. The regeneration test for catalyst OMTA-2 for CO2-ODEB.
It is necessary to gain more information on the textural and structural properties and surface composition of used and regenerated catalyst OMTA-2, aiming to elucidate its deactivation cause and superior catalytic performance. Raman spectrum analysis was firstly utilized to determine the composition of coke deposited on the surface of used catalyst OMTA-2. Two broad peaks centered at 1338 and 1583 cm−1, assigned to amorphous carbon and graphitic carbon, respectively (Wang et al., 2018, Wang et al., 2018), were clearly obvious (Fig. S4). No characteristic band ascribed to crystalline phase of TiO2 was detected in the Raman spectrum of the used catalyst OMTA-2. This indicates that the formation of framework TiOAl bonds can effectively prevent the atomic migration of Ti species and restrain their surface crystallization. Consequently, the Ti species still highly homogenously dispersed within mesoporous walls of catalyst OMTA-2 even after a long time reaction at high temperature. Such conclusion can be further verified by SEM-mapping analysis. In two different regions randomly selected, highly homogenously dispersed Al, O, and Ti spots were observed across whole catalyst OMTA-2 after 20 h of reaction (Fig. S5). Notably, for the used catalyst OMTA-2, the calculated surface atomic ratio of Al/Ti determined by the XPS analysis (Fig. 12) was 1.48, which value is much lower than that (3.2) of the fresh one (Table 1). The significant reduction in the surface Al content indicates that the generated coke mainly deposited on the surface Al sites rather than Ti sites, which can be further confirmed by comparing the O1s XPS spectra of catalyst OMTA-2 before and after 20 h of reaction. As shown in Fig. 12a, different from the fresh catalyst OMTA-2, the used one exhibited a significant decrease in the relative intensity of fitting peak centered at 531.7 eV, signifying a prominent deduction in the amount of surface oxygen bound to Al. This suggests that a large amount of coke was mainly deposited on the surface Al-O sites. After calcination to efficiently eliminate the deposited coke (Figs. S3 and S4), the regenerated catalyst OMTA-2 displayed almost identical O 1s XPS spectrum and Ti 2p XPS spectrum to those of fresh one (Fig. 12). By calculating, the surface atomic ratio of Al/Ti and the proportions of surface Ti4+ over the regenerated catalyst OMTA-2 are is 3.12 and 96.9%, respectively, which are very similar to those of fresh one.
Download : Download high-res image (332KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 12. XPS spectra of O 1s (a) and Ti 2p (b) for fresh, used, and regenerated catalyst OMTA-2.
Fig. 13 showed the N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms and small-angle XRD patterns of used and regenerated catalyst OMTA-2. From the Fig. 13a, it can be seen that after 20 h of reaction, the used catalyst OMTA-2 exhibited an IV-type isotherm with a gentle capillary condensation step occurred in a relative pressure ranging from 0.40 to 0.55, corresponding to a small and broad mesoporous size distribution. By calculating, the specific surface area, pore volume, and average pore size of the used catalyst OMTA-2 are 143 m2·g−1, 0.12 cm3·g−1, and 2.70 nm, respectively, all of which are significantly inferior to the fresh one (Table 1). However, after regeneration, the N2 adsorption/desorption isotherm of regenerated OMTA-2 is similar to that of fresh one (Fig. 13a). For regenerated catalyst OMTA-2, its specific surface area, pore volume, and average pore size are 275 m2·g−1, 0.44 cm3·g−1, and 6.89 nm, respectively. The characterization results from N2 physisorption analysis confirm that the generated coke mainly deposits in the mesochannels of catalyst OMTA-2. The partial blockage of mesochannels can be reasonably responsible for the gradual deactivation of catalyst OMTA-2 during the reaction process (Fig. 10b). After regeneration, the full-recovery in the textural properties of catalyst OMTA-2 can be attributed to its excellent mesostructural stability, which can be confirmed by the small-angle XRD analysis (Fig. 13b).
Download : Download high-res image (246KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 13. N2 absorption/desorption isotherms (a) and small-angle XRD patterns of fresh, used, and regenerated catalyst OMTA-2.
3.3. Reaction pathway
For the representative catalyst OMTA-2, its superior catalytic performance is associated with its excellent surface acidity (Fig. 8) and reducibility (Fig. 7). This correlation can be related to the highly homogenous dispersion of Ti and the formation of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds with charge imbalance, which contributed to more oxygen species chemisorbed on the surface of catalyst OMTA-2 (Fig. 6b). The bridging oxygen in the surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds with enhanced reactivity with H (Fig. 7) was concluded as the critical active sites for CO2-ODEB. Here, the redox reaction as a main pathway was proposed to understand the superior catalytic performance of catalysts OMTA-x for CO2-ODEB, as described in Scheme 1. The reaction starts from the adsorption of EB on the surface of catalysts OMTA-x. The surface four-fold coordinated Ti4+ Lewis acid sites with enhanced acidic strength (Fig. 8) can be beneficial for the chemical adsorption of EB, and the surface chemisorbed oxygen species as easily reducible oxygen species (Fig. 7) firstly react with EB to produce ST and H2O. The consumption of the surface chemisorbed oxygen species can effectively enhance the mobility of bridging oxygen in surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds (Wang et al., 2019, Jampaiah et al., 2016). As a result, the surface bridging oxygens as the labile oxygen species possess a significantly enhanced reactivity with H (Fig. 7, Fig. 10) and play a key role in effectively activating and dissociating the CH bond in the methylene group of ethylbenzene to produce ST, along with the reduction of Ti4+ to Ti3+. During such dehydrogenation step, the generation and desorption of H2O leads to the formation of surface oxygen vacancies. For the next re-oxidation step using the CO2 as the soft oxidant, the formed surface oxygen vacancies can be effectively promote the activation and dissociation of CO2 by transferring the electron to CO2 (Yanagisawa and Sumimoto, 1994). The produced atomic oxygen from the dissociation of CO2 can fill and further heal the surface oxygen vacancies. Consequently, the surface bridging oxygen in Ti4+OAl3+ bonds with a strong reactivity with H can be efficiently replenished, which can be responsible for the extremely high catalytic stability of catalysts OMTA-x for CO2-ODEB. In addition, taking into consideration that the catalysts OMTA-x exhibited a higher initial EB conversion under CO2 atmosphere than that in N2 flow (Fig. 11b), it is reasonable to believe that the reverse water–gas shift reaction coupled with the catalytically direct dehydrogenation of EB (Zhang et al., 2015, Lei et al., 2018) is simultaneously occurred over catalysts OMTA-x, which results in a shifting of reaction equilibrium towards the production of more ST.
Download : Download high-res image (118KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Scheme 1. A pictorial representation of the main superficial reaction pathway for CO2-ODEB over catalysts OMTA-x.
To underpin our proposed redox reaction pathway, Ti 2p XPS spectrum analysis was employed to evaluate the chemical states of Ti on the surface of representative catalyst OMTA-2 before and after reaction under different atmospheres. As shown in Fig. 12b, compared to the fresh catalyst OMTA-2, an obvious broadened and asymmetric peak pattern was clearly discerned in the Ti 2p XPS spectra of used catalyst OMTA-2 (especially the one used in the absence of CO2), signifying the surface Ti3+ species were generated during the reaction procession. The appearance of surface Ti3+ species can be attributed to the consumption of surface bridging oxygen in the Ti4+OAl3+ bonds, which contributed to the formation of surface oxygen vacancies. After deconvolution, the calculated proportions of surface Ti3+ over catalyst OMTA-2 after reaction under CO2 and N2 flows are 5.35% and 12.43%, respectively. Under CO2 atmosphere, the prominent decrease in the content of surface Ti3+ sufficiently verifies that the partially reduced surface of catalyst OMTA-2 can effectively activate and dissociate CO2. Consequently, the formed surface oxygen vacancies can be efficiently healed by the atomic oxygen originated from the dissociation of CO2, resulting in the re-oxidation of reduced catalyst OMTA-2 (Fig. 12). Such conclusion can be further confirmed by the H2-TPR analysis for catalyst OMTA-2 after 20 h of reaction under CO2 and N2 flows, respectively. It can be seen from Fig. 14 that for catalyst OMTA-2 after reaction under N2 atmosphere, no obvious reduction peak was discerned in a temperature range from 150 °C to 750 °C, indicating that a large amount of surface oxygen species of catalyst OMTA-2 has been consumed during the reaction process. In contrast, after reaction under CO2 flow, the catalyst OMTA-2 displayed a broad and strong reduction peak centered at 650 °C with a shoulder on the lower temperature side, which is well consistent with the observation from the H2-TPR profile of fresh catalyst OMTA-2.
Download : Download high-res image (120KB)
Download : Download full-size image
Fig. 14. H2-TPR profiles of catalyst OMTA-2 before and after 20 h of reaction in the presence and absence of CO2.
4. Conclusion
Ordered mesoporous Ti-Al composite oxides (OMTA-x) with various atomic ratio of Al to Ti have been synthesized via a facile SA-EISA method and were used as catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of EB to ST with CO2 (CO2-ODEB). Via such method, almost all titanium existing in the initial synthesis solution could be ultimately highly homogeneously incorporated into the mesoporous walls in the high valence state (Ti4+). The highly homogenously dispersion of Ti at an atomic level and the formation of framework TiOAl bonds endow the resultant catalysts OMTA-x a remarkably increased mesostructral order, a significantly improved textural properties, an obviously enhanced surface acidity and redox properties. Consequently, catalysts OMTA-x displayed an extremely superior catalytic performance for CO2-ODEB. By correlating the catalytic performance of catalysts OMTA-x and their surface composition and microstructure, the surface bridging oxygen in Ti4+OAl3+ bonds were revealed to be the critical active sites for the titled reaction. In addition, the superficial redox reaction as a main pathway and deactivation causes for catalysts OMTA-x under different reaction atmosphere were further illustrated. Our achievements not only provide new contribution for the synthesis of ordered mesoporous Ti-Al composite oxides with improved textural, structural, and surface properties but also promote the development of TiO2-based catalysts with remarkably improved catalytic activity, stability, and reusability for CO2-ODEB by maximizing the proportion of surface Ti4+OAl3+ bonds.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Dahai Pan: Conceptualization, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Writing – original draft. Yu Ru: Methodology, Data curation, Formal analysis. Tonglian Liu: Data curation, Formal analysis. Yongjie Wang: Data curation, Formal analysis. Feng Yu: Validation, Investigation, Funding acquisition. Shuwei Chen: Conceptualization, Supervision, Funding acquisition. Xiaoliang Yan: Investigation, Funding acquisition, Writing – review & editing. Binbin Fan: Validation, Supervision. Ruifeng Li: Conceptualization, Validation, Supervision.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This work was supports by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21975174, 21878203, and 21706176), the Natural Science Foundation of Shanxi Province, China (201801D121057 and 201801D121061), and the Key Research and Development Project of Shanxi Province, China (201803D31034).
Appendix A. Supplementary material
The following are the Supplementary data to this article:
Download : Download Word document (430KB)
Supplementary data 1.
</DOCUMENT>

Examine the content within the supplied document to determine if it pertains to any form of propane dehydrogenation, including both Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) and Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH). If the document discusses either of these processes in the context of converting propane to propylene, please continue to assess the main scientific contributions as outlined in the subsequent steps.
1. Identify the catalyst that represents the main scientific contribution in the document.
2. Extract and detail the following information for this catalyst:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Composition Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - If the Type is "Alloy":
        - Structure Type: Nanoparticulate Alloys, Intermetallic Compounds, Single-atom Alloys, Others
        - Preparation Method: Impregnation Methods, Heat Treatment, Surface & Support Methods, Solution-Based Methods, In Situ Synthesis, Chemical Methods, Physical Methods, etc.
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Oxides, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion (%): Specify type (e.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion)
    - Selectivity (%)
    - Stability (if in h-1 or convert to h-1)
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (%)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Determine how the manuscript increases selectivity, conversion, and stability, focusing on improvements in catalyst preparation method, structural composition, process conditions, or reactor design.
4. Describe the specific performance enhancements (selectivity, conversion, stability) and summarize the advancement in one sentence.
5. Convert the stability to an hourly rate (h-1) if not already in that unit.
6. Identify whether the catalyst is utilized for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH), a process that does not involve oxidation, or for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation (ODH), where an oxidative process is integral. Clarify the distinction between PDH, where propane is dehydrogenated to propylene without the presence of oxygen or other oxidizing agent, and ODH, which involves the oxidation of propane as a part of the dehydrogenation process to propylene.
7. Identify the feed gas composition utilized with the catalyst.
8. Determine if the feed gas contains an oxidizing agent.

Output the information in an XML format following the provided template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelated>
		<MainScientificContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Type>____</Type> <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<CompositionElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</CompositionElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<AlloyDetails> <!-- Include only if Type is Alloy -->
					<StructureType>____</StructureType> <!-- E.g., Nanoparticulate Alloys -->
					<PreparationMethod>____</PreparationMethod> <!-- E.g., Impregnation Methods -->
				</AlloyDetails> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more elements as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConversionTypes>
					<Type>____</Type> <!-- E.g., single-pass conversion, propane conversion, overall conversion -->
					<Value>__Value%__</Value>
					<!-- Add more types as necessary -->
				</ConversionTypes> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value%__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<StabilityOriginal>__Value (Original Units)__</StabilityOriginal> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ConvertedStability>__Value (h-1)__</ConvertedStability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more rates as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value%__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more ratios as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
 				<TypeIdentify>____</TypeIdentify>  <!-- PDH or ODH -->
				<FeedGasComposition>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<Component>____</Component>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedGasComposition>
				<ContainsOxidizingAgent>____</ContainsOxidizingAgent> <!-- Yes or No -->
			</Catalyst>
			<PerformanceEnhancement>
				<EnhancementDetails>
					<!-- Specify the aspect(s) that has/have been enhanced (Selectivity, Conversion, Stability) -->
					<!-- For example, if Selectivity has been enhanced due to a specific preparation method, list it here -->
					<Aspect>____</Aspect> <!-- E.g., Selectivity, Conversion, Stability -->
					<ImprovedBy>____</ImprovedBy> <!-- E.g., Preparation Method, Structural Composition, Process Conditions, Reactor Design -->
					<SummaryOfAdvancement>____</SummaryOfAdvancement>
				</EnhancementDetails>
				<!-- Repeat the <EnhancementDetails> element if there are multiple enhancements -->
			</PerformanceEnhancement>
		</MainScientificContribution>
	</IfRelated>
</output>
