<DOCUMENT>
Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Light Alkanes on Metals and Metal Oxides

1 Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
1.1 Setting the Scene
Because of their extensive use as chemical building blocks, light olefins, such as propylene (propene) and ethylene (ethene), are among the most important types of compounds in the chemical industry. Light olefins are the feedstock employed in the production of a vast array of chemicals, including polymers (e.g., polyethylene and polypropylene), oxygenates (e.g., ethylene glycol, acetaldehyde, acetone, and propylene oxide), and important chemical intermediates (e.g., ethylbenzene and propionaldehyde). (1-4) The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn. (5) In Figure 1, the uses as well as the recent and predicted future growth of the olefin supply and demand are shown. (6) Steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) of naphtha, light diesel, and other oil byproducts are the most common methods for obtaining these light olefins. For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced. (7)
Figure 1
Figure 1. Consumption of ethylene, propylene, and butylenes in 2004, 2010, and 2016 (predicted). In addition, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right. These (predicted) numbers originate from ref. 7.
A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies. In recent years, hydraulic fracturing or “fracking” technologies have improved to the point where large volumes of shale gas can be extracted in a cost-effective manner. In fact, the United States already obtains one-quarter of their natural gas production from shale gas deposits, and this is expected to rise even further in the coming years due to the emphasis that is being given to the attainment of energy independence. (8, 9) This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals. This includes light olefins, which can be obtained by first converting natural gas into synthesis gas and by subsequently converting the latter either directly through the Fischer–Tropsch-to-olefins (FTO) process or indirectly through the methanol-to-olefins (MTO) route with an intermediate methanol synthesis step. (10, 11)
Table 1. Gas Composition of Six Different Shale Gas Deposits in the United Statesa
shale deposit methane (%) ethane (%) propane (%) carbon oxides (%) nitrogen (%)
Barnett Shale (avg of four wells) 86.8 6.7 2.0 1.7 2.9
Marcellus Shale (avg of four wells) 85.2 11.3 2.9 0.4 0.3
Fayetteville Shale (one well) 97.3 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.7
New Albany Shale (avg of four wells, N2 not reported) 89.9 1.1 1.1 7.9  
Antrim Shale (avg of four wells) 62.0 4.2 1.1 3.8 29.0
Haynesville Shale (one well) 95.0 0.1 0 4.8 0.1
aLarger hydrocarbons, hydrogen, and oxygen are present in trace amounts and are not given. (12)
As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas. (13) Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council. (14)
The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted. Relative to naphtha cracking, steam cracking of ethane produces a negligible amount of olefins other than ethylene, which is why the supply of propylene has dropped and its price has risen sharply, creating opportunities for on-purpose catalytic technologies, such as the catalytic dehydrogenation of light paraffins into the corresponding olefins. (15) Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable. An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products. In fact, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity. As of this writing, ca. 5 million tons of propylene is produced annually by propane dehydrogenation (PDH). (16, 17) However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction. (18-21)
Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply. Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices. This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan. (22-25)
1.2 Scope of This Review
Because dehydrogenation for the production of light olefins has become extremely relevant in recent times, we aim to provide the reader with a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze this reaction. First, we will introduce the subject by considering the industrial processes that have been patented and applied and the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation reaction. Next, the Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts that are currently used in commercial processes will be examined in detail. Additionally, other metal oxides, such as GaOx, VOx, MoOx, and InOx, which have also proven to be promising dehydrogenation catalysts will be surveyed. For each catalytic material, relevant factors, such as the specific nature of the active sites, as well as the effect of support, promoters, and reaction feed on catalyst performance and lifetime, will be discussed. Finally, we will compare different catalysts both in terms of the reaction mechanism and deactivation pathways and in terms of catalytic performance. To the best of our knowledge, no attempt has been made to compare such a wide range of dehydrogenation catalysts in a single review article, although other reviews have been published in recent years dealing with the dehydrogenation of light paraffins. For example, Bhasin et al. wrote an extensive review on the industrial application of dehydrogenation technologies in 2001, which includes a comparative discussion of the state of the art of oxidative dehydrogenation technologies. (26) Two more review articles by Vora and Bricker (UOP) were published in 2012. In the first review article, Vora gives a general overview of the dehydrogenation of light olefins and ethylbenzene on Pt-based catalysts, discussing important principles for catalyst and reactor design. (27) In the second review paper, Bricker addresses catalyst design in more detail, emphasizing mass transfer and the use of selective hydrogen combustion to increase olefin yield. (28) Other reviews focusing on a specific family of dehydrogenation catalysts have also been published. For example, Weckhuysen and Schoonheydt reviewed the dehydrogenation of alkanes on supported chromium oxide catalysts in 1999. (29) Dehydrogenation of alkanes on vanadium and chromium oxides is also discussed by Jackson et al. in a book on metal oxide catalysis published in 2009. (30) The chemistry of vanadium oxide for oxidative dehydrogenation has been further discussed in a review by Albonetti et al. (31) Another review by Cavani et al. discusses the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane on supported vanadium and molybdenum oxides. The authors conclude that, although the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane has potential, the oxidative dehydrogenation of higher paraffins is still far from being commercially applied. (32) The nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light paraffins on both supported and bulk transition metal oxides has also been discussed by Copéret in a review focused on C–H bond activation. (33) Also of note are three reviews by Krylov, Wang, and Ansari, where the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes is discussed. (34-36) Finally, in a chapter by Caspary et al. in the most recent edition of the Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, the dehydrogenation of alkanes is discussed broadly, albeit emphasis is placed on CrOx and Pt catalysts, on the kinetics and mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction, and on reactor technology. (37)
2 Commercial Dehydrogenation Processes
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
To date, five main industrial processes for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes have been patented, two of which are currently being used to produce light olefins. (38-41) As of April 2012, 5 million tons of propylene was being produced by the 14 propane dehydrogenation plants around the globe. (16, 17) The global demand of propylene was 103 million tons that year and is expected to increase by 4–5% on a yearly basis. (42, 43) Literally dozens of new installations have been planned or are already under construction, amounting to an additional 14 million tons of propylene to be produced annually by 2018. (16, 17, 44) Additionally, six isobutane dehydrogenation installations are currently in operation, with three other plants planned. (43) The majority of these new facilities will be built in China or the United States and will use either the Catofin (Lummus) or the Oleflex (UOP) technologies. A compilation of all existing and planned propane dehydrogenation installations is shown in Figure 2. Furthermore, in Table 2, a comparison is made between the two most important processes, Catofin and Oleflex. The STAR (UHDE) process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East. The other two processes, fluidized bed dehydrogenation (FBD) process (Snamprogetti and Yarsintez) and Linde-BASF PDH, have not yet been commercially applied.
Figure 2
Figure 2. World map showing an overview of propane dehydrogenation installations currently in operation (filled shapes) and installations that have been announced and are expected to start up before 2018 (unfilled shapes). The numbers represent the maximum production of each plant (×1000 tons per year). The locations of the facilities are approximations. (16, 17, 44, 45) For some of the newly announced PDH installations (□), the industrial process to be used remains to be announced.
2.1 Catofin Process
The Catofin process, by CB&I Lummus, is based on the Houdry Catadiene process, which originally was exclusively used for the dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutene. In turn, isobutene was employed for the production of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), a fuel additive used to raise the octane number of gasoline. For environmental reasons, the use of MTBE has declined in recent years, causing a shift in the use of Catofin installations to alternative purposes, such as propane dehydrogenation. A Catofin installation generally consists of 5–8 parallel adiabatic fixed bed reactors containing a chromia–alumina catalyst. The reaction is run at temperatures of approximately 575 °C and pressures between 0.2 and 0.5 bar. (26) Each reactor alternates between dehydrogenation, regeneration, and purge steps, each lasting a few minutes (15–30 min being needed for one full cycle). Each individual reactor is made to run continuously so there are always some units performing dehydrogenation reactions, while other reactors are being regenerated or purged, which results in a constant flow of reaction products. (46) A schematic of a Catofin dehydrogenation installation is shown in Figure 3. The duration of the dehydrogenation step depends on the heat content of the catalyst bed, which decreases rapidly due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. Part of the heat required for the reaction is introduced to the reactors by preheating the reaction feed, additional heat being provided by adjacent reactors that are regenerating the coked catalysts. Moreover, fuel gas is added to the reactor during the regeneration step to generate supplementary heat, (47) and inert material is added to the catalyst bed to increase its heat storage capacity. (48) The catalyst remains in use for 2–3 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span. (29, 49)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematic representation of a Catofin dehydrogenation unit. Eight parallel reactors alternate between dehydrogenation (DH), purge, and regeneration (regen). Olefins produced are separated from side products that are subsequently mixed with oxygen and combusted to heat the reactors during the regeneration step.
2.2 Oleflex Process
The Oleflex process by UOP uses a very different reactor design comprising fluidized bed reactors, a catalyst regeneration unit, and a product recovery section. A schematic representation is shown in Figure 4. (50) The reaction is run using a Pt–Sn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 °C. Three or four adiabatic radial flow reactors containing the catalyst are connected in series with preheaters in between. These gas flow preheaters represent the main source of heat of the reactor system. The catalyst flows through the system, the last reactor being connected to a continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) unit that regenerates the catalyst by burning of any carbon deposits and redisperses the Pt on the support material by means of treating the catalyst with a chlorine–air mixture. The entire system is designed to operate continuously to obtain an uninterrupted stream of reaction products. The regenerated catalyst is then reintroduced to the first reactor, completing an entire cycle every 5–10 days. Product recovery is done by cooling, compressing, and drying the reactor effluent, hydrogen being cryogenically separated from the hydrocarbons. The latter are led through a selective hydrogenation unit to remove diolefins and acetylenes. Polymer-quality propylene is obtained after flowing the hydrocarbons through a de-ethanizer and a propane–propylene splitter. More detailed information on the Catofin and Oleflex processes is presented in Table 2.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic representation of an Oleflex dehydrogenation unit. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate paraffins, cracking products, and hydrogen from olefins is shown.
Table 2. Specifics of the Catofin and Oleflex Commercial Dehydrogenation Processes (43, 44, 46, 50-55)
  Catofin Oleflex
catalyst formulation 18–20 wt % CrOx on an alumina support, promoted by 1–2 wt % Na or K <1 wt % Pt and 1–2 wt % Sn on an alumina support, promoted by 0–1 wt % Na or K
process license holder CB&I Lummus UOP (Honeywell)
used for dehydrogenation of propane, isobutane and isopentanes dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane
operating conditions 575 °C at 0.2–0.5 bar 525–705 °C at 1–3 bar
reactor type typically multiple parallel fixed bed reactors a fluidized bed reactor consisting of three separate parts: several reactors in series, a product recovery section, and catalyst regeneration section
main source of heat supply heating of the catalyst material during regeneration preheating of the starting and intermediate gases before each reactor
reaction program typically 12 min of dehydrogenation, 3 min of purge, 12 min of regeneration, and 3 min of purge the separate parts of the reactor run continuously as the fluidized catalyst bed moves from one section to the next
deactivation deposition of coke and thermal sintering of the alumina support leading to a loss of surface area deposition of coke and sintering of the Pt nanoparticles; in addition, catalyst particle attrition is an issue due to the fluidized bed
regeneration combustion of the coke deposits combustion of the coke deposits and chlorine addition to assist with Pt redispersion
catalyst lifetime 2–3 years before the reactor is shut down and the catalyst is replaced; catalyst lifetime is prolonged by increasing the temperature to maintain high propylene yield at the cost of lower selectivity 1–3 years, new catalyst being continuously added to the reactor system and dusts formed due to catalyst attrition being continually removed
2.3 Other Patented Alkane Dehydrogenation Processes
The Steam Active Reforming (STAR) process developed by Uhde utilizes a very different reactor setup. The reaction is run at 6–9 bar and at temperatures between 500 and 600 °C, steam being added to the feed to reduce paraffin partial pressure and coke formation. Because the catalyst has to be stable in the presence of steam, Pt–Sn supported on a (basic) zinc–aluminate is used with calcium/magnesium–aluminate as a binder. Very little coke is deposited on the catalyst surface, and thus dehydrogenation cycles may be as long as 7 h before regeneration becomes necessary.
A fixed bed reactor system is used, consisting of two separate reactors placed in series. (37, 56) The first is a top-fired tubular reformer-type reactor, which is externally heated by an oven. Most of the heat is provided at the top of the reactor, where the dehydrogenation activity is highest. The gas mixture exiting the first reactor is cooled prior to being introduced into the second so-called oxyreactor, where an oxygen–steam mixture is used to selectively combust part of the hydrogen formed, shifting the equilibrium toward higher olefin yields. In addition, the combustion of hydrogen provides the heat required for the additional conversion of propane. The olefins in the resulting gas mixture are separated from any residual hydrogen and other side products, which are combusted to heat the dehydrogenation reactor oven. A schematic representation of this reactor setup is shown in Figure 5. Currently, two dehydrogenation installations using the Uhde STAR process are being constructed in Egypt and Iran.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Schematic representation of a Steam Active Reforming (STAR) dehydrogenation unit. The system comprises two fixed bed reactors, one located in an oven and an oxyreactor where hydrogen is combusted. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate the olefins from paraffins, cracking products, and residual hydrogen is shown.
Figure 6 shows a schematic representation of the Fluidized Bed Dehydrogenation (FBD) process, licensed by Snamprogetti and Yarsintez, in which a fluid catalytic cracking-like reactor system is used for the dehydrogenation of propane. An alkane is flowed through a staged fluidized bed at pressures between 1.1 and 1.5 bar and temperatures between 550 and 600 °C. A CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, promoted with an alkali metal, is used. The catalyst deactivates over time and is therefore continuously transported to a regenerator connected to the reactor to combust the carbon deposits. The heat required for the dehydrogenation reaction is provided by heating the catalyst material to temperatures above 700 °C in the regenerator. A fuel gas is routinely added during regeneration as the combustion of the carbon deposits alone does not provide enough heat to achieve these temperatures. Upon its return to the reactor, the catalyst cools again to temperatures below 560 °C. Finally, a system comprising a jet scrubber and cyclones in the head of the reactor is used to remove any dust formed by catalyst attrition. (48)
Figure 6
Figure 6. Schematic representation of the Fluidized Bed Dehydrogenation (FBD) reactor system. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
The Linde-BASF PDH process, of which a schematic representation is shown in Figure 7, uses a Pt–Sn catalyst supported on ZrO2 for dehydrogenating light paraffins isothermally at a temperature of 590 °C. The process shows various similarities with the STAR process, as the reaction feed is diluted with steam and an externally heated fixed bed reactor is used. Three of these reactors operate in parallel, with two in dehydrogenation and one in regeneration mode, ensuring a continuous flow of reaction products. A mixture of air and steam is used to regenerate the catalyst, and the reactor is purged before and after the regeneration step. (37)
Figure 7
Figure 7. Schematic representation of the Linde-BASF PDH process. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
3 Thermodynamics of Nonoxidative Alkane Dehydrogenation
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
From the chemical perspective, dehydrogenation is a one-step reaction through which light paraffins can be converted into the corresponding olefins and hydrogen, as illustrated below for the dehydrogenation of propane:
However, the reaction is thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, which, according to Le Chatelier’s principle, implies that higher reaction temperature and/or lower paraffin partial pressure are needed to achieve high conversions. Indeed, temperatures of 550–750 °C are typically required in the dehydrogenation of C2–C4 paraffins to obtain alkane conversions ≥50% at 1 bar (see Figure 8). Moreover, given that the enthalpy required to dehydrogenate alkanes decreases as the chain becomes longer (ΔH2980 = 137 kJ mol–1 for ethane, 124.3 kJ mol–1 for propane, and 117.6 kJ mol–1 for isobutane dehydrogenation), a considerably larger amount of energy is required to dehydrogenate light paraffins on a mass basis. The pressure dependence is also shown in Figure 8, lower pressures clearly resulting in higher olefin yields at a given temperature.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Equilibrium conversion of C2–C4 paraffins to olefins as a function of temperature at 1 bar (left) and pressure dependence of the dehydrogenation of propane as a function of temperature (right).
The C–H bonds in paraffins and olefins are considerably more reactive than C–C bonds, meaning that catalysts that favor C–H over C–C bond cleavage are required to avoid side reactions. An additional complicating factor is that olefins are considerably more reactive than their paraffinic counterparts, which can further lead to unwanted side and secondary reactions. Three types of side reactions can occur, hydrogenolysis, cracking, and isomerization. In hydrogenolysis, the addition of hydrogen into a C–C bond within a paraffin results in the formation of two smaller alkanes. Because hydrogen adatoms and/or CxHy adspecies are required for alkane hydrogenolysis to occur, (57, 58) this reaction is believed to be catalyzed by Pt sites. Cracking also results in the cleavage of a paraffin to form two smaller hydrocarbons, although in this instance no hydrogen is required. Thermal cracking hardly occurs at dehydrogenation reaction conditions, as it requires temperatures of 450–750 °C and pressures of 5–70 bar. This reaction proceeds via the formation of radical intermediates, which rearrange into an alkane and an alkene. Catalytic cracking is different in the sense that it requires a catalyst with Brønsted and Lewis acidity and proceeds via the formation of a carbocation intermediate, albeit it also results in the formation of an alkene and an alkane. (59-61) Isomerization is the rearrangement of atoms within a molecule. For example, during the dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutene, the former may transform to 1- or 2-butene, which may dehydrogenate further to 1–3-butadiene. The rearrangement can take place via a carbocation intermediate formed on a Brønsted acid site, or through an adsorbed species on the active phase of the dehydrogenation catalyst. (62-64) By increasing the temperature, the rates of both C–H and C–C cleavage reactions are increased, and therefore temperature and pressure must be carefully controlled to achieve an optimal olefin yield. In short, the balance between dehydrogenation and these side reactions is very complex.
Fortunately, these side reactions are catalyzed by specific sites that are not required for dehydrogenation, which means that high olefin yields can be obtained by careful catalyst design. For instance, cracking reactions are efficiently catalyzed by Brønsted acid sites, while large Pt ensembles also display activity for hydrogenolysis, cracking, and isomerization reactions. Scheme 1 shows an overview of the side reactions that may be catalyzed by Brønsted acid and Pt sites on a typical Pt-based dehydrogenation catalyst. (26)
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Examples of the Side Reactions That May Occur When 1-Butene Is Exposed to a Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst: (1) Hydrogenolysis, (2) Thermal Cracking, (3) Catalytic Cracking, and (4) Isomerization
An additional problem is that the high temperatures required to obtain high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke. Consequently, the performance of dehydrogenation catalysts progressively deteriorates with time-on-stream, making it necessary to regenerate the catalysts frequently to preserve sufficient activity. This is particularly important when the process operates at high alkane conversions, due to the fact that polymerized olefins are believed to be coke precursors, as will be discussed in more detail in section 5.1. Hence, during the selection of the operational conditions in any industrial dehydrogenation process, a compromise must be struck between olefin selectivity and paraffin conversion.
Notably, the reaction equilibrium can be shifted to higher paraffin conversions by reducing the partial pressure of the paraffin or by withdrawing the hydrogen produced. As was shown in the previous section, two strategies have been adopted in industry to lower paraffin partial pressure, reducing the pressure below atmospheric (Catofin) or diluting the paraffin feed with steam (STAR process). (26, 30) Hydrogen can be removed from the reaction medium by selective hydrogen combustion (SHC), which involves the addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed to burn off the hydrogen formed during dehydrogenation. Relatively mild oxidants, for example, CO2, are preferred, as the use of strong oxidants, like O2, risks also combusting the hydrocarbon reactants and products. Through this approach, a considerable amount of heat is generated, which promotes the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction. Another method deals with the addition of a solid oxygen carrier (such as ceria) that serves as a source of oxygen for oxidizing the hydrogen formed. The reduced ceria is reoxidized during the regeneration step. (65) Another strategy is to use a membrane permeable to hydrogen to withdraw the latter from the system, thereby shifting the equilibrium toward higher olefin yields. Nevertheless, as the thermal stability of these membranes is limited, this approach is more suited for the dehydrogenation of isobutene. (66-68)
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of paraffins is related to SHC by the fact that an oxidant is also added to the feed, although in ODH the latter is done to directly oxidize the paraffin to the respective olefin. ODH has some advantages that make it a very attractive alternative to nonoxidative dehydrogenation, including the facts that the reaction is exothermic (propane ODH: ΔH2980 = −117 kJ mol–1) and not equilibrium limited. However, a good control of side reactions, such as cracking and the excessive oxidation of reaction products, is very challenging.
4 Overview of Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation Catalyst Materials
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
As mentioned above, two main types of formulations are typically used for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins: noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Although Pt represents the only precious metal that has been extensively studied, various metal oxides have been successfully tested, CrOx being the most prominent example due to its industrial use. Furthermore, promising results have been obtained using gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides. These materials are discussed in detail hereinafter.
4.1 Platinum-Based Catalysts
In the 1960s, a new technology was developed for the synthesis of the long-chain linear olefins used in the production of biodegradable detergents. (26) This new approach was inspired by the well-known bifunctional supported metal catalysts utilized in catalytic reforming, where a noble metal catalyzes hydrogenation and dehydrogenation reactions and the acidic support provides the active sites needed for isomerization, cyclization, and hydrocracking reactions. In contrast, dehydrogenation catalysts are monofunctional, as the acidic function must be minimized to avoid side reactions.
Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic C–H bonds and low activity to C–C cleavage. The first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology, the Pacol process (UOP), was first commercialized in 1968. On the basis of an alumina-supported platinum catalyst, the process greatly contributed to the widespread use of linear olefins in the detergent industry. In the early 1970s, UOP developed the Oleflex process, which was initially applied for the production of butadiene and later extended to propylene.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Structure sensitivity of ethane hydrogenolysis on 1% Pt/SBA-15 with Pt particle size ranging from 1.7 to 7.1 nm. Reprinted with permission from ref. 69, copyright 2005, American Chemical Society.
4.1.1 Nature of the Active Sites
Noble metals are active for dehydrogenation in the metallic state, and in some cases a reduction step is necessary prior to reaction. The dehydrogenation reaction of light alkanes is insensitive to the structure of the platinum particles; that is, such reactions are independent of the platinum particle size or crystallographic plane exposed. As only the amount of active sites is relevant, small particles are preferred. However, undesired side reactions that occur during alkane dehydrogenation, such as hydrogenolysis, isomerization, and coke formation, are sensitive to the structure of the platinum particles, although there is no general consensus regarding the effect of dispersion on the rate of these reactions. Some studies stress the markedly inverse relationship between particle size and the rate of hydrogenolysis (see Figure 9), the latter reaction being one of the main causes of coke formation. (69-72) Contrarily, others believe that for hydrogenolysis to take place, carbon deposits need to be in the vicinity of adsorbed hydrogen, which is more likely to occur on large Pt ensembles than on small particles. (37, 73, 74)
DFT calculations have been utilized to calculate the energy barrier of propane dehydrogenation on flat (111) and stepped (211) Pt crystal planes by Yang et al. (72) Indeed, it was found that step sites are more reactive, as the energy barrier to form propylene is much lower on step sites (24–34 kJ mol–1) than on the flat surface (63–72 kJ mol–1). Nevertheless, propane adsorbs more strongly on the latter, forming propylidyne intermediates believed to serve as precursors for both hydrogenolysis and coke formation. (72, 75)
4.1.2 Catalyst Deactivation
Two main processes cause the deactivation of Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts. First and foremost, the side reactions that form carbon deposits on the catalyst surface lead to the coverage of the active sites with coke, which results in a drop in activity. As it is not possible to completely prevent coke deposition, the catalyst needs to be regenerated frequently by combusting the coke deposits. However, the high temperature of both the regeneration process and the dehydrogenation reaction triggers the agglomeration or sintering of the platinum nanoparticles, the concomitant loss in active sites also resulting in catalyst deactivation. In addition to temperature, the composition of the reaction mixture has a profound influence on the sintering behavior of supported Pt catalysts. As early as 1977, Fiedorow et al. showed that Pt/Al2O3 catalysts more readily sinter in an oxygen-containing atmosphere than in a hydrogen-containing atmosphere at temperatures above 600 °C. (76, 77) A third important factor determining catalyst sintering is the interaction between Pt and the catalyst support. Nagai et al. reported that Pt on Al2O3 readily sinters after treatment in air at 800 °C, while Pt on CeO2 remains stable due to the strong interaction between ceria and Pt. The authors proposed that the strength of the Pt–support interaction depends on the strength of the Pt–O–M bond (where M represents the cation in the support), which in turn shows an excellent correlation with the electron density of the oxygen in the support. As a result, the authors conclude the electron density of oxygen in the support in effect controls the sintering of supported Pt particles. (78)
However, Pt can be redispersed on the catalyst by the addition of low amounts of oxygen and chlorine in the feed at temperatures around 500 °C, although this process can only occur when the interaction between the support and the PtOx and PtOxCly species formed is such that mobile surface complexes are produced. (76, 79-83)
Figure 10
Figure 10. Selectivity to butenes as a function of the number of butane pulses on a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst doped with different amounts of Na (left) and TPO profiles of the spent catalysts (right) showing that Na has a positive effect on the selectivity and that the presence of Na decreases the coke deposition, respectively. Reprinted from ref. 84, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
4.1.3 Role of the Support
Good supports for dehydrogenation of alkanes have to be thermally stable, especially under the harsh hydrothermal conditions that the material experiences during the regeneration step. In addition, limited support acidity is needed to avoid undesirable side reactions, such as coke formation and alkane isomerization. Finally, for an optimal distribution of the metallic particles, a relatively large surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred. (85)
High surface area alumina is the classical support employed in platinum-based dehydrogenation catalysts due to its high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and its exceptional ability of maintaining the platinum nanoparticles dispersed, which is crucial to attain stable catalyst performance. However, most alumina supports are acidic, and therefore promoters are used to curb support acidity. The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10. (84, 86-89) Moreover, these promoters can modify the properties of the platinum and suppress side reactions, such as hydrogenolysis and isomerization, reportedly due to a reduction in the effective size of platinum clusters. (69-72) Zn and Mg have also been used to dope the support, because the resulting spinel phase is less acidic and thermally more stable. These spinels also curtail the sintering of platinum due to a strong metal–support interaction. (90-93) Yet another strategy is to use more stable polymorphs of alumina, such as θ- or α-alumina, because the latter have considerably less Brønsted acid sites relative to γ-alumina, albeit they also tend to have considerably lower surface areas. It is also important to mention that to reach a high dispersion of Pt on the support, Lewis acid sites and amphoteric OH groups are required (which limits the use of SiO2 and basic supports, such as MgO or ZnO). Indeed, by hydrothermally treating γ-Al2O3 prior to impregnation, the formation of additional hydroxyl groups results in a better Pt dispersion after impregnation and calcination. (94)
Zeolites are a commonly used alternative support for dehydrogenation catalysts. Dumesic and co-workers reported Pt–Sn supported on zeolite K-L to be a highly active, selective, and stable catalyst in the selective dehydrogenation of isobutane. (95-98) The authors suggest that in the presence of K, zeolite L can stabilize small Pt–Sn particles in the micropores of the support. In addition, this catalyst shows a high tolerance to coke deposition. This is particularly important as the strong acid sites of zeolites make them very susceptible to coking. (85) Recently, Azzam et al. studied how the structure of zeolite L affected the stability of a Pt/K-L catalyst during the dehydrogenation of propane. (99) Using kinetic isotope experiments, they found no evidence of isotopic scrambling, suggesting that the dehydrogenation reaction was irreversible in this system. Furthermore, the steric restraints of the zeolite structure do not prevent coke formation via bimolecular reactions, in contrast to what was observed for hexane aromatization. (100, 101) Iglesia et al. found Pt supported on Na–[Fe]ZSM-5 zeolites to be highly selective and stable catalysts in the dehydrogenation of light alkanes. (102) These authors claim that the replacement of the framework Al3+ for Fe3+ ions is essential for the Pt precursor to anchor inside the 10-member ring zeolite channels, which in turn is necessary to obtain subnanometric Pt clusters after reduction. The resulting catalyst displays high stability and selectivity toward light olefins, which is explained by the low acidity of the zeolitic support. Further modifications of the catalyst involving the neutralization of the residual acid sites with Cs after Pt reduction improved the selectivity of the catalyst in the dehydrogenation of n-pentane and n-heptane. (103) On the other hand, SBA-15 (a mesoporous silica) was found to be an unsuitable support, as the Pt–Sn nanoparticles readily sinter due to the weak metal–support interaction. (85)
4.1.4 Role of the Promoters
Despite the fact that platinum-based catalysts display very high activity in dehydrogenation reactions, their intrinsic selectivity to alkenes and catalyst stability are not entirely satisfactory. Consequently, the addition of promoters, which are able to modify the catalytic properties of platinum, is necessary to obtain an optimal catalyst. Tin is by far the most studied promoter, and all of the platinum-based catalyst formulations that are industrially applied include this post-transition metal, the addition of which modifies both the platinum active phase and the support. Essentially, Sn suppresses hydrogenolysis and isomerization reactions, minimizes metal sintering, neutralizes the acidity of the support, and facilitates the diffusion of the coke species from the metal surface to the support. Although these beneficial effects of tin promotion are well-known and have been amply described in the literature, the working principles of the Pt–Sn system are still under debate. Indeed, both geometric and electronic effects have been invoked to explain the mechanism through which tin influences the catalytic properties of platinum. In any case, it is clear that SnO2 species present on the catalyst are reduced by the hydrocarbon feed during the dehydrogenation reaction and/or during a prereduction step, yielding a Pt–Sn alloy. The reducibility of SnO2 depends largely on the interaction with the support, strong interaction making the reduction more difficult. However, Pt in close proximity assists with the reduction of Sn. (85)
From the geometric point of view, it has been suggested that isomerization, hydrogenolysis, and the formation of coke precursors can all be suppressed by reducing the size of platinum nanoparticles. (97, 98, 104, 105) Notably, the formation of a platinum–tin alloy and/or the partial covering of the platinum particles by tin species results in the creation of smaller platinum ensembles. Olsbye et al. have suggested that tin selectively covers low coordination platinum sites (such as steps, corners, edges, and defects), which they believe are responsible for the hydrogenolysis reaction. (106, 107) Furthermore, the so-called ensemble effect can be employed to explain the geometric advantages of Sn addition to Pt-based catalysts. Dehydrogenation is believed to be a structure-insensitive reaction, meaning that very small groups or even single Pt atoms can catalyze the reaction. On the other hand, side reactions, such as coking, are structure-sensitive, and require relatively large ensembles of Pt. Pt–Sn alloy formation effectively reduces the amount of neighboring Pt atoms within the ensembles, curbing these structure-sensitive reactions. Moreover, it has been suggested that the sintering of Pt nanoparticles is retarded with the addition of Sn. (107) Additionally, coke precursors prefer to adsorb on large Pt ensembles, and thus the addition of Sn facilitates the migration of these precursors from the Pt–Sn surface to the support, effectively reducing the detrimental effects of coke deposition. (104, 108)
A secondary effect of Sn addition is the modification of the electronic properties of platinum. Alloyed metallic Sn or Sn2+ species in close contact with platinum are able to transfer electrons to the 5d band of platinum atoms, which alters the adsorptive and catalytic properties of the metal. The interaction of promoters with platinum can be assessed by measuring the heat of adsorption of distinct probe molecules through microcalorimetric methods. (109-114) Dumesic et al. performed a thorough adsorption microcalorimetry study and observed that the heat of ethylene and isobutene adsorption decreases with the addition of tin. (115-117) Infrared spectroscopy revealed that during the adsorption of ethylene, tin suppresses the formation of ethylidyne species and weakens the molecular adsorption of ethylene on the platinum surface. Additional DFT calculations explained these experimental results by revealing an increase in the electron density of platinum, which weakens the adsorption of ethylidyne on platinum atoms in close contact with tin. As discussed in section 5.1, ethylidyne is suspected to be an important precursor of coke and hydrogenolysis. Furthermore, DFT calculations described in Figure 28 revealed that Sn promotion significantly reduces the dehydrogenation reaction rate of platinum catalysts, as the energy barrier of the dissociative adsorption of propane is increased. On the other hand, the selectivity is increased as the energy barrier for the desorption of propylene drops, making deep dehydrogenation and cracking reactions less likely. (114, 118, 119) The balance between these two effects results in an optimum ratio of Pt and Sn, which these calculations suggest is Pt3Sn. On the basis of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) observations, Siri et al. reported an increase of the electron density of platinum when tin was incorporated to silica and γ-alumina-supported catalysts. (120) DFT calculations have shown that the addition of Sn also reduces the heat of adsorption of hydrogen on the Pt–Sn (111) surface, which suggests that the diffusion of hydrogen atoms is more facile on the latter than on a Pt (111) surface. (73, 121) Figure 11 illustrates the important role that the electronic modification of Pt by Sn is believed to play in inhibiting coke formation. The left part of the figure shows high energy resolution fluorescence detection X-ray absorption near edge structure (HERFD-XANES) intensity contour maps of the Pt L-edge of catalysts comprising alumina-supported Pt (top) and Pt–Sn (bottom). The right part of the figure shows a graphical interpretation of the XANES spectra, which illustrates the size of the metallic nanoparticles in both catalysts increasing during the regeneration step, an effect that is more severe for Pt/Al2O3. A shift to higher energies in the XANES spectra during the reduction step reveals that Pt becomes more electronegative, which is attributed to the formation of the Pt–Sn alloy. This phenomenon, which is triggered by the partial reduction of the SnO2 present on the support, is reversed during the oxidation step. (122) Sn enrichment of the Pt nanoparticles may be a problem, as the Pt3Sn alloy is believed to be significantly more active for the dehydrogenation reaction than the Pt–Sn alloy. (114, 123) Summarizing, Figure 12 shows an artist impression of a Pt–Sn nanoparticle on alumina.
Figure 11
Figure 11. In the figures to the left, HERFD-XANES intensity contour maps (Pt-L3 edge) of Pt/Al2O3 (top) and Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (bottom) catalysts are shown at different stages of a dehydrogenation experiment. The figures to the right depict the interpretation of Iglesia-Juez et al. for these spectra in terms of changes to the Pt nanoparticles. Reprinted from ref 122, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 12
Figure 12. An artist’s impression of a Pt–Sn nanoparticle within a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst is shown as was discussed in the preceding section. The surface of the alumina is covered with SnO2, which gets reduced when in close proximity to Pt and incorporated into a bimetallic Pt–Sn nanoparticle. Surface Pt atoms catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction according to the mechanism shown in the inset.
Other metals have been studied as promoters of the activity of platinum in the dehydrogenation of alkanes. Most notably, zinc prevents undesired side reaction such as coke formation and isomerization in a fashion similar to that of tin. (124-129) GaOx and InOx dopants are used to hinder side reactions by the poisoning of surface Brønsted acid sites, while the formation of Pt–Ga and Pt–In alloys has both a geometric and an electronic effect on the Pt nanoparticles, decreasing coke deposition further. (130-133) Another alloy that has been investigated is Pt–Ge, which is believed to function in a way analogous to that of Pt–Sn, although the electronic effect is believed to be weaker. (134)
An overview of the Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts discussed above, including relevant reaction parameters, such as conversion, selectivity, temperature, space velocity, and feed composition, is given in Table 3. The activity of the catalysts is compared using their calculated “specific activity”, which is defined as the moles of olefin formed per mol of Pt per second at the start of the dehydrogenation reaction. As mentioned before, the dehydrogenation reaction is insensitive to the structure of the Pt, so all Pt atoms present at the surface of the catalyst nanoparticles can be assumed to participate equally in the dehydrogenation reaction. However, it was not possible to calculate turnover frequency (TOF) due to the fact that Pt dispersion values (the ratio between the Pt at the surface versus the interior of the catalyst nanoparticles) were not forthcoming in most of the references included in Table 3. Finally, as a proxy for catalyst stability, we have determined the deactivation rate (rd), for which we assume a first-order deactivation mechanism: (135)
where Xstart and Xend represent the conversion at the start and the end of an experiment, and t is the duration of the experiment in hours, higher kd values being indicative of rapid deactivation, that is, low stability.
Table 3. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Pt-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 0.1 wt % Pt–Na–[Fe]/ZSM-5 520 WHSV = 15.1; WHSV = 18.1 C3H8 = 25, He = 75; iC4 = 33, H2 = 7, He = 60 33–13 20–10 98.3–99.8 96.5–98.6 1.51; 1.08 0.0080; 0.0041 166 102
(2) 2 wt % Pt–1 wt % Sn/CeO2/C 520 WHSV = 24.8 iC4 = 33, H2 = 7, He = 60 37–20 90–100 1.27 × 10–1 0.0051 140 135
(3) 0.35 wt % Pt–1.26 wt % Sn/Al2O3 519 WHSV = 3.5 C3H8 = 30 kPa, N2 = 70 31–20 95–98 1.09 × 10–1 0.29 5 136
(4) 0.5 wt % Pt–0.6 wt % Sn/MgAl2O4 550 WHSV = 36.6 C3H8 = 50, H2 = 50 12–11 92–95 4.97 × 10–1 0.028 3.5 137
(5) 0.6 wt % Pt–5 wt % Ga/MgAl2O4 605 WHSV = 3.9 C3H8 = 73, H2 = 27 31–30 97–98 1.76 × 10–1 0.024 2 138
(6) 0.5 wt % Pt/Zn/Silicalite 555 WHSV = 2.8 C3H8 = 95, C2H6 = 4.5, iC4H8 = 0.5 27–25 99–100 1.75 × 10–1 0.0010 100 139
(7) 0.58 wt % Pt–Sn/K-L 600 WHSV = 13.2 iC4 = 33, H2 = 67 61–46 92–99.8 3.94 × 10–1 0.0048 126 98
(8) 1.0 wt % Pt–Sn/SiO2 500 WHSV = 248 iC4 = 50, H2 = 50 19–15 95–96 2.090 0.14 2 140
(9) 0.5 wt % Pt/Zn-Beta 555 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 100 40–29 55–90 1.41 × 10–1 0.04 12 126
(10) 0.5 wt % Pt–Na/Sn–ZSM-5 590 WHSV = 3 C3H8 = 75, H2 = 25 41.7–39.1 95.3–98 2.20 × 10–1 0.012 9 141
(11) 0.5 wt % Pt–Zn/Na–Y 555 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 100 24.8–15.7 91.6–90.6 1.45 × 10–1 0.048 12 126
(12) 0.5 wt % Pt–Sn–Na/Al-SBA-15 590 WHSV = 3.0 C3H8 = 75, H2 = 25 27.5–12.6 ∼94 1.43 × 10–1 0.024 40 142
(13) 0.9 wt % Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O 600 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 20, H2 = 25, He = 55 16–11.4 99.2 1.13 × 10–2 0.20 2 132
(14) 0.7 wt % Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O 600 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 20, H2 = 25, He = 55 20.4–16.3 98 1.83 × 10–2 0.14 2 133
aValues of conversion and selectivity of the end and start of each catalytic run are shown. From the articles considered, only the best performing catalyst is included.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Pt*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.2 Chromium Oxide-Based Catalysts
Chromium oxide-based catalysts have been one of the most actively investigated formulations since Frey and Huppke first reported the dehydrogenation activity of Cr2O3 in 1933. (143) During the 1940s, catalysts comprising chromia supported on alumina were used by UOP to industrially dehydrogenate butane to produce butene, which were dimerized and hydrogenated to form high-octane aviation fuels. These catalysts have been applied to several processes for the dehydrogenation of light olefins henceforth. (26) Given the industrial relevance of formulations comprising chromium oxide, their structure under different reaction conditions, the nature of the active sites, the role of the support, the effect of alkali metals promoters, and the mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction over these catalysts have all been intensively studied.
4.2.1 Nature of the Active Sites
Because the adsorption of paraffin molecules takes place on Cr–O sites, understanding the exact nature of these species under dehydrogenation reaction conditions is critically important. (144) On freshly prepared catalysts a number of surface species, including Cr6+, Cr5+, Cr3+ and Cr2+, have been identified. Furthermore, chromates, polychromates, crystalline α-chromia and amorphous chromia have been identified through a variety of techniques. (145-148) The relative concentration of these species seems to be dependent on a number of factors, such as chromium loading (relative to the surface area), the calcination treatment used during catalyst preparation, and the support employed. This is illustrated in Figure 13, where chromium species deposited on SBA-15 (a mesoporous silica) and alumina are compared by Raman spectroscopy. Different species are observed depending on the Cr loading: at low loadings isolated CrO42– species predominate, while at higher concentrations Cr–O–Cr species become prevalent due to the formation of Cr2O3 crystallites. These crystallites are more readily formed on SBA-15 than on alumina, as the interaction between chromium oxide and SBA-15 is relatively weak.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Graphs represent Raman spectra of x wt % CrOx/SBA-15 and CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts (x: a = 0.5, b = 1, c = 5, d = 10). Bands attributed to CrO42– and Cr–O–Cr species are observed at different loadings and correspond with isolated Cr atoms and crystalline Cr2O3. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 14
Figure 14. In situ XANES spectra of the Cr K-edge of the 5 wt % catalysts after oxidative pretreatment (−), after 90 s of dehydrogenation (black - - -), after 15 min of PDH (gray – – −), and after regeneration (gray −). Notably, the Cr6+ species present on the catalyst are reduced to Cr3+ species in the first 90 s of the reaction. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Graph to the left shows in situ diffuse reflectance spectra obtained during the dehydrogenation of propane on a CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst. In the right set of graphs, the relative change of bands (B–D) corresponding to Cr3+ and Cr6+ is shown. Both graphs illustrate that Cr3+ (band at 700 nm) is formed at the expense of Cr6+ (bands at 260 and 370 nm) during PDH. Reprinted from ref 150, copyright 2011, with permission from Elsevier.
Prior to the 1990s, the study of the structure of chromium oxide-based dehydrogenation catalysts had been restricted to conditions far removed from those found under real operation. For this catalytic system, this represented a great limitation, as the reaction mixtures are believed to reduce chromium oxide species. The development of in situ spectroscopic techniques made it possible to probe these catalysts under reaction conditions. As is shown in Figure 14 with XANES and in Figure 15 with UV–vis spectroscopy, it was observed that surface Cr3+ species are produced at the expense of Cr6+ species during the initial stages of the dehydrogenation reaction and that polychromate is more easily reduced than monochromate. (151-153) Consequently, Cr3+, coordinatively unsaturated Cr2+, as well as a mixture of both Cr3+ and Cr2+ have been all proposed as the active sites for dehydrogenation reactions. (154-157) Cr6+ or Cr5+ have not been observed to be active for the dehydrogenation reaction, albeit Cr6+/Cr5+ species do appear to be the precursor of active Cr3+ sites. This has been assigned to the fact that reduction of Cr5+ species leads to the formation of monomeric Cr3+ active sites. Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes. (150, 158-161)
With respect to coordination, it appears that Cr3+ sites need to be coordinatively unsaturated to show catalytic activity. (162) Indeed, a semiquantitative relationship has been found between the amount of pseudo-octahedral Cr3+ formed during reduction and the dehydrogenation activity shown by the catalyst. (152, 153) Furthermore, it has been observed that isolated Cr3+ species with two coordinative vacancies are formed on CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts in the presence of an alkane. Thus, it appears that these catalysts contain coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ under reaction conditions. Experiments performed with Cr loadings above monolayer coverage, which have been shown to include crystalline chromia clusters, suggest that bulk Cr3+ ions in a perfect octahedral environment are inactive toward alkane dehydrogenation. Admittedly, these fully coordinated Cr3+ species are highly stable, whereas coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species would try to attain the stability of bulk Cr3+ ions by adsorbing alkane molecules from the gas phase.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Yield of butenes at 540 °C over a chromia–alumina catalyst as a function of Cr loading. Activity increases linearly with Cr loading, even above monolayer coverage. However, the yield drops once Cr2O3 crystallites start being detected via XRD. Reprinted from ref 163, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
With respect to nuclearity, the need for a highly dispersed active phase is highlighted by the fact that, while activity first rises with increasing chromium loading, a drop in activity is observed when the loading is such that crystalline Cr2O3 starts forming, as illustrated in Figure 16. (163-165) The fact that activity and Cr loading hold an almost linear relationship below monolayer coverage suggests that both isolated and clustered Cr3+ centers are catalytically active. Actually, three different types of Cr3+ ions have been spectroscopically detected at these loadings: (1) Cr3+ species formed by reduction of surface Cr6+/Cr5+ ions; (2) isolated centers of Cr3+ ions stabilized by the alumina surface; and (3) small amorphous (and thus XRD invisible) Cr3+ clusters. (29, 49) Determining the individual contributions of these species to catalytic performance has proven to be extremely challenging. Some studies correlating dehydrogenation activity with Cr-speciation suggested that a vast majority of catalytic activity can be ascribed to the dispersed Cr3+ phase, the role of the other phases being the replenishment of the depleted Cr3+ surface phase during long runs. (152, 153, 166) More detailed studies involving the calculation of turnover frequencies (TOF) have led some workers to propose that multinuclear Cr3+ sites are more active than isolated Cr3+ ions, a proposition that finds both support and dissent in the literature. (147, 160, 163, 167-169) Kumar et al. observed that when γ-alumina was employed as the catalyst support, oligomeric chromium oxide species would display the highest activity and selectivity. However, when SBA-15 was used as the carrier, isolated chromia species with coordination number larger than 4 showed the highest activity. (149) It is clear that the optimal nuclearity of active Cr3+ sites remains a topic still under debate.
Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time. (170) At first, the selectivity toward alkenes is fairly low and the catalyst produces mainly carbon oxides, as is shown in Figure 17. This is attributed to the fact that during this induction period, highly oxidized, and thus catalytically inactive, chromium species are being reduced to active chromium species with lower oxidation states. Eventually, a high selectivity of 93.6% can be reached at a conversion of 55%. (29)
To summarize, in recent years dehydrogenation activity has been mostly assigned to Cr3+ species that are both dispersed and coordinatively unsaturated. Thus, it seems that active sites need to fulfill oxidation state, coordination, and nuclearity requirements. In fact, these and other factors, such as the origin of Cr3+ species, have been used by some workers to classify the catalytically active sites. (171-173)
It should also be mentioned that many other factors could also influence the activity of Cr-based dehydrogenation catalysts. For instance, the addition of CO2 as a mild oxidant is known to improve the activity of chromium dehydrogenation catalysts by removing the evolved hydrogen through the reverse water gas shift reaction, which effectively shifts the equilibrium toward product formation. (174-176) At the same time, CO2 is ineffective at oxidizing catalytically active Cr3+ species to catalytically inactive Cr5+ or Cr6+ species. (150, 177, 178)
To obtain high activity, the operating conditions also need to be considered, because activity is directly proportional to both the reaction temperature and the partial pressure of the alkane. Moreover, alkane conversion has been found to be inversely proportional to space velocity, and selectivity has been found to be directly proportional to alkene selectivity. In studies where Cr/Al2O3 catalysts were used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, it was found that when the space velocity (GHSV) decreased from 3600 to 600 h–1, ethane conversion increased from 27.6% to 31.4%, while selectivity to ethylene decreased from 91.7% to 64.9%. (179) This effect has been attributed to the fact that lower space velocities favor ethane activation as well as methane and coke formation.
In conclusion, it is possible to achieve high activity and selectivity over Cr-based hydrogenation catalysts by adjusting the composition of the catalysts and/or the operating conditions.
Figure 17
Figure 17. To the left, the conversion and selectivity observed in a 86 min period of propane dehydrogenation on a 13 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. Conversion drops over time, while the selectivity remains stable after increasing during the initial stages of the reaction. To the right, the mass uptake of the catalyst as measured by a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) is shown as a function of time-on-stream. Over the first 40 min, the catalyst mass increases due to coke deposition, after which it remains stable. Reproduced from ref 180, with permission from the PCCP Owner Societies.
4.2.2 Catalyst Deactivation
Over the course of a catalytic cycle, CrOx dehydrogenation catalysts lose their activity due to the deposition of coke, and as is the case with Pt-based catalysts, they need to be periodically regenerated. Experiments performed using a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM), shown in Figure 17, revealed that the weight of the catalyst increases during the initial stages (10–40 min) of the reaction, no additional carbon being deposited after this time. However, conversion continues to drop beyond this point, which indicates that the carbon originally deposited becomes more detrimental for the catalytic activity over time. Although the catalysts recover most of their activity after each reaction–regeneration cycle, the loss of activity is not entirely reversible. Indeed, the heat released through the combustion of coke during regeneration leads to the incorporation of chromia into the alumina framework, which causes the amount of catalytically active Cr species to decrease with each regeneration step. (29) This phenomenon has been measured by UV–vis spectroscopy, as shown in Figure 18. In the figure, a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst is treated at 1100 °C for 12 h, which results in the bands corresponding to Cr3+ species to shift, signaling the incorporation of Cr3+ species into the alumina support. Consequently, the dehydrogenation activity shown by the catalyst drops, and an almost linear relationship has been found between activity and the amount of Cr6+ species on the catalyst surface (as measured after the regeneration step). (150, 166, 181)
Figure 18
Figure 18. Top graph shows the ex situ diffuse reflectance UV–vis spectra of both fresh and deactivated CrOx/Al2O3. The bottom left graph shows the extent of the shift for the bands at 600 and 450 nm, which correspond to the first and second d–d transitions, respectively. The bottom right graph shows that the fraction of Cr3+ incorporated into the alumina framework is strongly dependent on the calcination temperature. Reprinted from ref 49 (top graph), copyright 2004, and ref 172 (bottom two graphs), copyright 2002, both with permission from Elsevier.
Two processes are believed to lead to the dissolution of Cr3+ into the Al2O3 carrier and result in catalytically inactive Cr3+ species. First, the sintering of the alumina may cause entrapment of the Cr species inside the bulk of the support. As an additional effect, the loss of alumina surface area reduces the ability of the support to stabilize Cr6+ species formed during the regeneration step. (154, 182) Consequently, Cr3+ ions migrate into the support. Indeed, it is believed that the similar ionic radii and charge of Al3+ and Cr3+ facilitate the diffusion and subsequent incorporation of Cr3+ into the octahedral sites of alumina, which produces a type of chromia–alumina spinel that is inactive for the dehydrogenation reaction. (145, 183) Of note is the fact that in the presence of γ-alumina, entrapment is believed to be the dominant process, while in its absence migration is favored. (145, 183)
At elevated temperatures, γ-alumina undergoes a thermodynamically driven transformation to θ- or even α-alumina, which coincides with a considerable loss in surface area. It is unknown whether the presence of chromia facilitates or hinders the sintering of the alumina support, as some authors have found the presence of chromia to enhance sintering, while other research groups have observed the opposite. (172, 184-186) The transformation of γ-alumina to α-alumina can be restrained by doping the support with silica, zirconia, magnesia, or lanthana. For example, Wachowski et al. observed that when a small amount of La2O3 is added to Al2O3, the transition of θ-alumina to α-alumina occurs at a temperature 136 °C higher relative to when no lanthana is added. (187, 188) The authors found that the use of cations having ionic radius larger than Al3+, which tend not to dissolve in Al2O3, in combination with a preparation method capable of affording high dopant dispersion, is most effective in preventing the formation of α-alumina.
It is important to note that the advantages offered by the combustion of coke during the regeneration step far outweigh these unwanted side effects. First and foremost, the heat released in this step is harnessed to fuel the dehydrogenation reaction, making coke deposition not completely undesirable. Furthermore, oxidation of Cr3+ to Cr6+ during regeneration also accomplishes the redispersion of chromia crystallites. The latter is particularly important, given that the sintering of chromia under dehydrogenation conditions has also been reported to be a contributing factor to the reversible deactivation of chromium-based catalysts. (171, 172)
Another interesting example of a deactivation phenomenon caused by a change in surface composition related to the nature of the support has been observed on catalysts comprising mesoporous silica as carrier. Indeed, by analyzing this material via XPS before and after 6 h of time-on-stream, an important amount of Cr3+ species was found to be reduced to Cr2+ by the hydrogen evolved during the anoxic dehydrogenation reaction. In turn, the resulting Cr2+ species were found to be inactive in dehydrogenation.
4.2.3 Role of the Support
The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity. Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromia–alumina catalysts have been investigated. These include the incipient wetness impregnation of alumina with CrO3 or Cr(NO3)3 solutions (if an alkali ion is added, an aqueous solution of its chromate salt is used), the coprecipitation of Al(OH)3 and Cr(OH)3 from Al3+ and Cr3+ solutions, a type of chemical vapor deposition (CVD) involving volatile chromium compounds being deposited on alumina called “atomic layer deposition”, and the decomposition of complexes including both alumina and chromium. All of these methods are followed by a calcination step at approximately 600 °C. Increasing the calcination temperature above 600 °C causes a loss of dehydrogenation activity, probably due to the incorporation of Cr into the Al2O3 framework, as discussed in the preceding section. (182) Very recently, an interesting synthesis strategy for preparing a mesoporous CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst by using a Cr-containing metal–organic-framework filled with an alumina precursor and subsequently combusting the organic material was reported. The resulting catalyst shows excellent thermal stability and is very active for isobutene dehydrogenation. (189) Interestingly, increasing the pretreatment temperature of the alumina support has a positive effect on the TOF shown by the resulting catalyst, which has been attributed to an increase in the number of multinuclear Cr3+ sites. (172) In addition, this pretreatment will result in a more stable Al2O3 polymorph, which is less likely to sinter. However, the use of alumina as support is not free of drawbacks. For instance, Al2O3 can catalyze cracking and coking due to its surface acidity, which leads to a drop in both activity and selectivity. A solution for this is the doping of alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions, which can effectively poison these undesirable acid sites.
The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated. Indeed, the low surface acidity of this oxide and the fact that chromia imparts an enhanced sintering resistance to ZrO2 make the latter a viable substitute for alumina. (159, 160) De Rossi et al. have reported that catalysts with zirconia as the support are more active in the dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane than the corresponding catalysts supported on silica or alumina. (167, 168, 181, 190) This has been attributed to an increase in the amount of surface Cr5+ that is produced during the regeneration of Cr2O3/ZrO2. The latter improves activity because Cr5+ forms catalytically active mononuclear Cr3+ under reaction conditions, as has already been mentioned. In turn, the high amount of Cr5+ on this catalyst has been attributed to the strong interaction between chromia and the basic support. (170) The choice of zirconia over alumina as the catalyst support offers the additional advantage of preventing the formation of Cr–Al mixed oxides. Nevertheless, Cr2O3/ZrO2 has been observed to deactivate faster than other less active catalysts including Cr2O3/Al2O3, which has been partially imputed to the higher coking rate displayed by Cr2O3/ZrO2. Additionally, XPS studies suggest that chromia–zirconia catalysts also favor the formation of chromium carbides, which are inactive in dehydrogenation and consequently cause catalyst deactivation. (170)
De Rossi and co-workers have also concluded that albeit Cr/ZrO2 catalysts can outperform their alumina- and silica-supported counterparts, zirconia-supported formulations could be further improved by increasing the surface area and the thermal stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2. This has inspired other workers to produce chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts with high surface areas and highly dispersed active sites. For example, Fujdala and Tilley have reported the use of a cothermolysis method involving several thermolytic molecular precursors to produce a Cr/Si/Zr/O catalyst capable of showing propane conversions greater than 35% and propylene selectivities exceeding 90% at 450 °C. (191) According to the authors, the aforementioned values are among the best reported in the literature, particularly at such a low temperature. Korhonen et al. attempted to combine the high surface area of alumina with the basic nature of zirconia by covering an alumina support with a zirconia layer. (192) However, the resulting CrOx/Al2O3–ZrO2 catalyst displayed inferior activity as compared to the benchmark CrOx/ZrO2 catalyst.
The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. (193) Surface area considerations also explain the fact that titania does not constitute a good support, as CrOx easily sinters due to its weak interaction with TiO2. However, an active and stable propane dehydrogenation catalyst has been obtained by preparing a titania mesoporous material with Cr dopants. (177)
Figure 19
Figure 19. TPR profiles of 6 wt % CrOx on different supports. The catalysts with a strong reduction peak at low temperatures show the highest catalytic activity. The figure is reproduced from ref. 179 with kind permission from Springer Science and Business Media.
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) results suggest that there is a direct relationship between catalytic activity and the reducibility of the catalysts (see Figure 19). (179) Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41 ≫ CrOx/MgO ≈ CrOx/Si-2 (Si-2 is the abbreviation of silicalite-2 zeolite, which has been described as a silica analogue of the aluminosilicate zeolite ZSM-11 (194)), a reverse order being found for the reduction temperature of the chromium species on the aforementioned catalyst supports.
Cr–Mg–Al and Cr–Mg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. (195) Some of these catalysts were found to achieve ethane conversions of 27–30% and selectivity toward ethylene of 71–75%. The method used for introducing Cr into the LDH precursors was found to determine several properties of the resulting mixed oxides, such as surface area, catalytic performance, coking resistance, and thermal stability against sintering.
Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane, catalysts based on these materials display an initial conversion of 18.1% with a selectivity toward propylene of 87.1% at 550 °C. (162) Interestingly, it has been observed that while the selectivity of this material toward cracking decreases with time-on-stream, its selectivity toward the alkene tends to remain constant. The latter has been explained by assigning the occurrence of cracking and dehydrogenation reactions to strong and medium strength acid sites, respectively. The authors argue that strong acid sites are rapidly deactivated, inhibiting cracking reactions and favoring the production of the alkene.
4.2.4 Role of the Promoters
Alkali metals, such as K, Rb, and Cs, are known to promote both the activity and the selectivity of chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts. This phenomenon has been attributed to the ability of large alkali cations to stabilize the structure of the support, to reduce surface acidity, and/or to increase the number of active chromium sites. (154, 189) Additionally, the presence of alkali metal promoters increases the dispersion of the active phase by assisting the formation under oxidizing conditions of Cr6+ complexes that subsequently give rise to Cr3+ under a reducing atmosphere.
A notable exception to this promotion effect has been found in the doping with K+ of several PDH catalysts, such as chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, gallium–chromium mixed oxides pillared α-zirconium phosphate, and chromia/zirconia. (162, 196) For these materials, doping with K+ results in a dramatic decrease in catalytic activity. According to some authors, this indicates that oxygen ions play an active role in the dissociative adsorption of propane and/or in the desorption of hydrogen. Indeed, these workers contend that in these catalysts, potassium forms bonds with oxygen anions, which causes some properties, such as the Lewis acidity and the coordinative unsaturation of the latter, to be altered in a way that hinders catalysis. (181, 190) A similar argument has been used to explain the drop in activity observed when doping chromia/zirconia catalysts with sodium, although this effect has not been observed for alumina-based formulations.
Figure 20
Figure 20. An artist’s impression of the surface of a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst in which coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction. Note that partially reduced CrOx species are formed on the surface of the catalyst, and that the Cr is partially dissolved in the alumina support. The (simplified) reaction mechanism is shown in the inset.
An artist’s impression of a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst is shown in Figure 20, while Table 4 offers an overview of the different CrOx catalysts used for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins, as discussed in the previous section. As was the case in Table 3, in Tables 4–9 the activity of the catalysts is compared using their “specific activity”, as calculated according to the definition accompanying each table. The use of TOF was precluded by the fact that in oxide-based catalysts there exists a wide array of active species (e.g., monomers, oligomers, polymers, and crystalline species) exhibiting different degrees of catalytic activity and accessibility (some of these species are in the bulk as opposed to on the surface), which makes the determination of the actual number of active sites impossible.
Table 4. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Cr-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discussed
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)a selectivity (%)a specific activity (s–1)b kd (h–1) catalyst lifec (h) ref
(1) mesoporous 9 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 580   C3H8 = 5, He = 95 15.7–10.0 98   0.52 1 197
(2) mixed oxide 40% Cr2O3/60% Al2O3 588 ± 2 WHSV = 3.3 iC4H10 = 100 ∼23–14 99.4 6.87 × 10–4 0.48 1.25 154
(3) 73 wt % Cr2O3-pillared α-ZrP 550 WHSV = 1.7 C3H8 = 7, He = 93 18.1–6.3 87.1 1.23 × 10–5 0.24 5 162
(4) Ga–Cr mixed oxide on α-ZrP (20.1 wt % Cr, 9.3 wt % Ga) 550 WHSV = 2 C3H8 = 7, He = 93 27.6–4.4 80 5.05 × 10–5 0.42 5 196
(5) 14–16 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 540 WHSV = 46.6 iC4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 16 (start first cycle), 8 (30th cycle) 98 ± 1 1.21 × 10–3 0.026 30 163
(6) 5 wt % CrOx/SBA-1 550 WHSV = 1.2 C3H8 = 6.67, CO2 = 33.3, He = 60 37–26 85–92 1.66 × 10–4 0.14 3.75 165
(7) 4 wt % CrOx/ZrO2 550 WHSV = 0.3 C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 60.9–24.3 76.2–87.0 2.86 × 10–5 0.26 6 170
(8) (1 wt % Cr) Cr–Si–Zr Xerogel 450 WHSV = 0.86 C3H8 = 1.9, N2 = 0.2, He = 97.1 37.8–22.7 (35 and 400 m) 91.1–94.7 1.85 × 10–4 0.12 6.08 191
(9) Cr(2)Mg(12)Al(4)Ox (mixed metal oxide) 700 WHSV = 3.2 C2H6 = 28.6, N2 = 71.4 29.6 71 6.54 × 10–4   1 195
(10) 5 wt % Cr, 10 wt % Ce/SBA-15 700 GHSV = 3600 C2H6 = 25, CO2 = 75 55–46 96–97   0.059 5 175
(11) 20 wt % Cr, 1 wt % Na/Al2O3 550 WHSV = 0.12 C3H8 = 10, N2 = 90 47–37 80–89 7.41 × 10–6 0.069 6 198
aFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
bSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Cr*t(s)).
cCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.3 Vanadium Oxide-Based Catalysts
Despite the excellent performance of Pt and CrOx catalysts in paraffin dehydrogenation, a number of issues including catalyst poisoning, the high cost of Pt, and environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr have spurred the search for alternatives. Vanadium oxides are known to be active for many hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including dehydrogenation. Research on vanadium-based dehydrogenation catalysts started in the 1980s, although at that time the focus was on oxidative dehydrogenation using vanadium–magnesium mixed oxides. (199, 200)
The nature of the vanadium present on the catalyst depends to a large extent on the type of carrier, the support surface area, the metal loading, and the oxidation state of vanadium. (201) Far below the theoretical monolayer coverage isolated vanadium species are present, at intermediate surface coverage polymeric species or sheets of vanadium oxide are favored, and above monolayer coverage V2O5 crystallites become dominant. Therefore, a combination of V–O-support, V–O–V, or V═O moieties may be obtained, each having different catalytic activity. In addition, depending on the support, mixed oxides with Al, Zr, Ti, or Mg may be formed.
The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings. On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as −OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation. A schematic display of these vanadium species is shown in Figure 21. (202)
Figure 21
Figure 21. Various vanadium oxide species present on a catalyst support (S): isolated vanadium oxide species (a), dimers (b), two-dimensional chains of vanadium oxide species (c), and V2O5 crystallites (d). Reprinted from ref 201, copyright 2003, with permission from Elsevier.
Several authors claim that two-dimensional polymeric V3+ or V4+ species are the most active for dehydrogenation, (203-206) the vanadium species bonded directly with the γ/θ-alumina support being the most active sites in PDH. Isolated vanadium species are also active, albeit they are susceptible to deactivation due to coke formation. On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation. (30, 206)
Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. (207-209) The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, V–O–V and V═O bonds being more easily reduced than V–O-support bonds. Harlin et al. studied the effects of vanadium oxide reduction with H2, CO, and CH4 prior to the dehydrogenation reaction. In all cases, the reduction was incomplete, and yielded a mix of vanadium oxide species, including V3+, V4+, and V5+ (see Figure 22). Higher initial catalytic activities were obtained in all cases, although the effect was strongest after reduction with CO. The authors suggested that when the catalyst was reduced with H2 and CH4, detrimental −OH groups were formed. V4+ was determined to be the most active species in butane dehydrogenation.
Figure 22
Figure 22. Vanadium 2p3/2 XPS spectra of a VOx/Al2O3 catalyst calcined (top) and reduced with CO (bottom). Reduction yields a mixture of V5+, V4+, and V3+. Reprinted from ref 207, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active. (206) V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 °C. (210)
In several studies, CO2 is added to the feed as a mild oxidant to increase alkene yields. (211-213) Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse water–gas shift reaction. Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion. When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites. This increases the acidity of the support, which in turn increases coke formation and lowers selectivity. If these basic sites are absent, as in the case of SiO2, no beneficial effects of CO2 are observed.
Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity. (214) Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation. (208)
An overview of the different VOx catalysts used for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes is shown in Table 5.
Table 5. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the V-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 2.2 wt % VOx/γ-Al2O3 520 WHSV = 2.6, N2 = 90 nC4H10 = 10 11–3 55–76 (to all butene isomers) 1.75 × 10–4 1.04 1.33 202
(2) 3.5 wt % VOx/θ-Al2O3 600 GHSV = 14 400 nC4H10 = 100 32.9–8.5 (15–60 m) 56.1 (all butene isomers)   2.22 1 205
(3) 5.2 wt % VOx/Al2O3c 580 WHSV = 5 i-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 62–38 65–85 (to i-butene) 9.46 × 10–4 11.5 0.085 207
(4) 4.9 wt % VOx–4.7 wt % Mg/Al2O3e 580 WHSV = 5 i-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 44–36; 54–35 85–90 77–88 (to i-butene) 9.32 × 10–4; 9.40 × 10–4 1.34; 3.12 0.25 208
(5) 5.4 wt % VOx–4.5 wt % Zr/Al2O3e
(6) 4 wt % V–36 wt % MgOx/Cact 600 WHSV = 1.9 i-C4H10 = 14.3, CO2 = 85.7 45.5–26.5 76.4–85.0 5.77 × 10–4 0.72 1.17 212
(7) 3.5 wt % VOx/Al2O3 600 GHSV = 72 (at a pressure of 0.5 bar) C4H10 = 3, N2 = 97 70–15 12–30 to 1- and 1–3 butene   0.86 3 215
aAs some of these catalysts require an activation period, the maximum (as opposed by the initial) conversion is considered to determine the deactivation rate.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Cr*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
eCatalyst is prereduced by CO prior to the dehydrogenation reaction.
4.4 Molybdenum Oxide-Based Catalysts
Molybdenum oxides are also frequently used as catalysts in hydrocarbon conversion reactions, including dehydrogenation. To our knowledge, the first report of the dehydrogenation activity of a molybdenum oxide-based catalyst was of MoO3/Al2O3 in the dehydrocyclization of n-heptane, which was published in 1946. (216) Since that first report, the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes on MoOx has been studied scarcely, as emphasis has been given to the study of oxidative dehydrogenation on these materials.
The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. (217)
Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support. In the fresh catalyst, molybdenum is present as Mo6+, but analogously to catalysts comprising vanadium and chromium oxide, MoO3 is reduced by the hydrocarbon feed during reaction to create the active species. (218) These reduced sites are believed to be Mo4+ and Mo5+. Further reduction results in sites that are more active, but the latter catalyze cracking and deactivate fast due to coke deposition. In fact, at loadings above monolayer coverage, the catalyst is more easily reduced, which results in a drop in catalyst activity. (218, 219) The same authors also point out that such a catalyst deactivates due to the formation of catalytically inactive Al2(MoO4)3 crystallites. To prevent the formation of this mixed oxide, they added magnesium oxide to obtain a molybdenum–magnesium mixed oxide that also shows dehydrogenation activity. It was found that an additional beneficial effect of magnesia addition is that the resulting mixed oxide has lower acidity, which increases alkene selectivity and reduces coke deposition. The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites. (220) Overall, MoO3 catalysts deactivate rapidly due to coking and generally afford a relatively low conversion and selectivity.
Figure 23
Figure 23. Yield of different carbon molecules during butane dehydrogenation on a MoOxCy catalyst at different steam partial pressures. When no steam is added, the selectivity to C4 alkenes drops rapidly and the methane yield reaches 100% after 5 h. The hydrogenolysis reaction is suppressed when steam is added to the feed. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
The formation of molybdenum oxycarbides (MoOxCy) has been reported to occur during butane dehydrogenation on unsupported molybdenum oxide. These materials are also active in the dehydrogenation of paraffins, and a high activity close to the thermodynamic equilibrium is initially obtained, although over a period of a few hours the selectivity drops to zero and the reaction yields only methane, as shown in Figure 23. During this period, the oxycarbide becomes depleted from oxygen and a wide range of carbides active in hydrogenolysis are formed. (222) To improve the stability of the oxide, steam can be added to the feed (which hampers the growth of these carbides) or the catalyst can be doped with vanadium (which increases the oxophilicity of the catalyst). X-ray diffractograms showing this transition are shown in Figure 24. However, the introduction of steam is not free of drawbacks, as it induces sintering. Hydrogen addition prevents coke formation and increases conversion, albeit it is believed that H2 competitively adsorbs on the active sites of the catalyst. (221-223)
Figure 24
Figure 24. XRD diffractograms of the fresh Mo oxycarbide catalyst before dehydrogenation, but after pretreatment (top left), as well as after dehydrogenation reaction with no steam (top right), with 5 Torr of steam (bottom left), and with 18 Torr of steam (bottom right). In the absence of steam, the well-defined MoO2 and MoOxCy species disappear during reaction and are replaced by more amorphous MoOxCy species, which are enriched with carbon and presumably responsible for hydrogenolysis. The addition of steam prevents this transformation and with 18 Torr of steam, MoO2 and ordered MoOxCy species are still observed on the spent catalysts. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Consistent with the fact that MoOxCy is a catalyst active in butane dehydrogenation, Harlin et al. showed that MoO3 deposited on SiC displays significant catalytic properties when hydrogen and steam are present in the feed. (224) As compared to bulk MoO3 and MoO3 supported on SiO2 and Al2O3, higher selectivities and stability are obtained over MoO3/SiC, albeit at the cost of a lower conversion. This was explained by the increased reducibility of MoO3/SiC as compared to the MoO3/Al2O3 catalyst. A summary of the Mo-based catalysts used for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins is shown in Table 6.
Table 6. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Molybdenum Oxide-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 13.4 wt % MoO3/Al2O3 560 WHSV = 2 n-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 21–18 (second min 25) 50 7.21 × 10–5 2.78 0.17 218
(2) 12.8 wt % MoO3–8.4 wt % Mg/Al2O3 13–11 82 7.66 × 10–5 1.12
(3) MoO3 550 WHSV = 2 n-C4H10 = 9.3, N2 = 83.9, H2O = 6.8 42–8 55–84 2.96 × 10–5 0.28 7.5 221
(4) 14.2 wt % MoOx/SiC 560 WHSV = 2 n-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90, H2O = 3.1 22–17 38–71 5.41 × 10–5 0.32 1 224
aAs some of these catalysts require an activation period, the maximum (as opposed to the initial) conversion is considered to determine the deactivation rate.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Mo*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.5 Gallium Oxide-Based Catalysts
The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years. (225-228) In the interim, both bulk and supported Ga2O3 have been used as dehydrogenation catalysts.
The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors. (229) β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity. (230) Indeed, a heterolytic dissociation reaction mechanism has been proposed where H– adsorbs on a Ga+ Lewis acid site and C3H7+ on a neighboring oxygen, although these species can also be adsorbed reversed. (33, 231) The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., (232) who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10–xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity (see Figure 25). Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brønsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst. (233, 234) In addition, Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity. (235)
Figure 25
Figure 25. Concentration of Lewis acid sites versus propane conversion measured 15 min after the start of the PDH reaction on GaxAl10–xO15. A clear correlation between the conversion and the surface density of weak Lewis acid sites is observed. For these experiments, CO2 is used to improve conversion. Reprinted from ref 232, copyright 2008, with permission from Elsevier.
Several authors have performed DFT calculations in an effort to understand the dehydrogenation reaction mechanism on Ga2O3. Studies by Liu et al. regarding propane dehydrogenation on a perfect Ga2O3 (100) surface revealed that the C–H bond is activated by a surface oxygen that abstracts an hydrogen from the propane molecule, thus forming a propyl species, which coordinates with a Ga surface site and a hydroxyl group. A second hydroxyl group is formed via β-hydrogen elimination, but for these hydroxyl groups to recombine, either as H2O or as H2, a high energy barrier needs to be overcome. This barrier is much lower over a gallium hydride–hydroxide species, although the formation of the gallium hydride also involves a high energy barrier. Nevertheless, theoretical calculations by Pidko et al. indicate that these relatively stable [H–Ga–OH]+ sites are preferentially regenerated by water desorption resulting in a reduced active site. (236) Murata and co-workers have observed an increase in activity after a prereduction step with hydrogen at 550 °C, while a simultaneous increase of Gaδ+H and Ga–OH sites was observed via NH3 TPD. These authors proposed that these sites also form during reaction and may be responsible for the dehydrogenation activity of the silica supported Ga2O3 catalyst. (237, 238)
Contradictory information has been reported regarding the reducibility of Ga2O3. Rodriguez et al. reported that Ga2O3/Al2O3 is not reduced by hydrogen at 700 °C, but the presence of Pd on the catalyst can assist the reduction of Ga3+ to Ga+ and Ga0 at temperatures between 300 and 550 °C and form an alloy (in which Ga0 is immobilized). Indeed, it has been reported that the reduction of Ga2O3 can be promoted by the proximity of other, more easily reduced metals, such as Pt and Pd. (131-133, 238) For instance, on a Pt–Ga/H-beta catalyst, reduced gallium hydrides were observed after hydrogen reduction at 550 °C. (239) It has also been proposed that the reducibility of these species depends on the interaction of gallium oxide with the catalyst support, which is also the case with CrOx (vide supra), where a weak metal–support interaction results in an increased reducibility. Indeed, Meitzner et al. showed that Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5 could be reduced by hydrogen or hydrocarbons at dehydrogenation reaction conditions. Finally, regarding the reduction of Ga2O3, it is important to note that Ga2O is gaseous and metallic gallium is liquid at dehydrogenation reaction conditions. (240)
A number of studies have shown that the addition of CO2 to the reactant feed improves the olefin yield. (241-245) Nakagawa et al. found that the addition of steam and CO2 decreased coke deposition on a Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst by the Boudouart reaction, while also assisting ethylene desorption. (241, 242) However, other authors claimed that the increase in activity was caused by the reverse water–gas shift reaction (RWGS). (243, 244) Additionally, Michorczyk et al. noted that this effect could only be seen at relative low levels of coke deposition. (235) It was suggested that CO2 could also poison the basic sites required for the dissociative adsorption of the alkane. Additionally, Hensen et al. studied the promoting effect of water with experiments and theory and observed an increase in the conversion of propane by cofeeding water. (246) The authors attributed this promoting effect to the formation of partially hydrolyzed gallium species, more specifically, to the formation of binuclear hydroxyl-bridged Ga3+ cations.
Different carriers have been used in gallium oxide-based dehydrogenation catalysts, the inclusion of acid and basic sites on the support being important to achieve a high conversion. Xu et al. reported that in the absence of an oxidizing agent, the conversion obtained using Ga2O3 supported on ZrO2, Al2O3, and TiO2 was high, medium, and low, respectively, while SiO2 and MgO-supported Ga2O3 were inactive in alkane dehydrogenation. (233) The authors proposed the activity to be dependent on the presence of acid sites of medium strength on the catalyst surface. However, a different trend was observed when CO2 was present, as conversion was observed to be high on Ga2O3/TiO2 and low on Ga2O3/ZrO2 and Ga2O3/Al2O3. This was attributed to the two contrary roles of CO2, which on the one hand removes H2 from the surface of the catalyst by the reverse water–gas shift reaction, while on the other hand absorbs strongly on the basic sites of the support. Thus, the low conversion observed when zirconia or alumina were employed as the support can be ascribed to the relatively high amount of basic sites on these oxides. Notably, the structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous Ga–Al mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking. (245)
Work on the promotion of GaOx-based dehydrogenation catalysts appears to be limited, although a patent by Iezzi et al. claims that a catalyst comprising 1.2 wt % Ga2O3, <99 ppm of Pt, and 1.6 wt % of SiO2 on an Al2O3 support represents a highly active formulation in the dehydrogenation reaction. (247) Indeed, when this catalyst is used for PDH, a conversion of 39% and a selectivity of 85% can be obtained after 150 h of time-on-stream at 580 °C, with frequent regenerations at 650 °C. These values are the highest among those reported for Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts. However, which metal, Pt or Ga, is predominately responsible for the high activity of this catalyst, is not discussed.
In recent work by Sattler et al., a 3 wt % Ga/Al2O3 catalyst was promoted with 1000 ppm of Pt and 0.25 wt % of K to obtain a highly active, selective, and stable PDH catalyst. (248) Evidently, the function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brønsted acid sites. However, Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%. In the absence of Pt, propane conversion is more than halved. It was suggested that the role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species. The catalytic data on the Ga-based formulations discussed above are summarized in Table 7.
Table 7. Summary of the Catalytic Data of Gallium Oxide-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 1.7 wt % Ga2O3/SiO2 550 WHSV = 0.97 h–1 C3H8 = 10, Ar = 90 23–20 86–80 4.97 × 10–4 0.036 5 249
(2) Ga2O3/MTS (mesoporous silica) ratio Ga/Si = 0.05 550 WHSV = 0.33 h–1 i-C4H10 = 10, He = 90 46–40 58.3 to i-C4H8 5.52 × 10–5 0.092 2.67 230
(3) β-Ga2O3 500 WHSV = 0.15 h–1 C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 33–12 95–95 6.95 × 10–7 0.21 6 229
(4) Ga2O3 600 WHSV = 1.2 h–1 C3H8 = 17, CO2 = 83 31–3 95–82 3.55 × 10–5 0.67 4 235
(5) 5 wt % Ga2O3/ZrO2 600 WHSV = 0.3 h–1 C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 39–6; 32–8 74 1.90 × 10–5 0.77 3 233
(6) 5 wt % Ga2O3/TiO2     C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 5, N2 = 92.5   73 1.54 × 10–5 0.56    
(7) Ga8Al2O15 500 WHSV = 0.3 h–1 (a) C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 51.7–22.5 91.6–98.2 2.39 × 10–6 0.168 8 232
      (b) C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 5, N2 = 92.5 49.7–33.1e 91.7–98.0e 2.30 × 10–6 0.089    
(8) 5 wt % Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5 (w Si/Al = 97) 650 WHSV = 0.36 h–1 C2H6 = 3, CO2 = 15, Ar = 82 23.7–14.5 85.9–93.7 2.84 × 10–5 0.0086 70 244
(10) 0.001 wt % Pt, 1.2 wt % Ga/Al2O3 590 GHSV = 400 h–1 C3H8 = 100 39 86     0.25 247
aAs some of these catalysts require an activation period, the maximum (as opposed to the initial) conversion is considered to determine the deactivation rate.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Ga*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
eValues obtained at 15 min and 8 h.
4.6 Carbon-Based Catalysts
Carbon materials have been tested as the support in catalysts employed for various reactions, mostly because of their high surface area and the fact that these materials are both inexpensive and environmentally friendly. Moreover, discrete functionalities of activated carbon can catalyze an array of reactions, including alkane dehydrogenation. (250) McGregor et al. have reported that a VOx/Al2O3 catalyst completely encapsulated by coke deposits (see Figure 26) is active in butane dehydrogenation. (215) The fact that catalytic activity remained the same despite complete coke encapsulation is remarkable, as this extent of coking usually results in a drastic decrease in activity. The authors hypothesized that the carbon species formed on the catalyst surface were in fact catalyzing the reaction. The highest activity was observed at 700 °C, a temperature at which the carbon deposits display a very ordered structure. In view of this, the authors decided to test their hypothesis by using carbon nanofibers (CNFs) as a catalyst under similar conditions. Tellingly, CNFs proved to be catalytically active. It was concluded that radicals formed on the surface of coke facilitate the dehydrogenation reaction, albeit at elevated temperatures the noncatalytic conversion of propane is also relatively high. However, elevated temperatures also lead to a drop in selectivity, as cracking becomes the dominant reaction. Interestingly, the latter was not the case in the work of McGregor et al., who reported a selectivity toward butenes of ∼80%. Furthermore, hybrid nanocarbon, comprising a diamond core and a graphitic shell, displayed activity for the dehydrogenation of propane, which was attributed to the presence of either ketone groups or structural defects in the graphitic material. (251)
Figure 26
Figure 26. TEM images of VOx/Al2O3 after butane dehydrogenation at 550 °C (left) and 700 °C (center and right). The high magnification image of the catalyst deactivated at 700 °C clearly shows that the catalyst is completely enveloped in a carbon layer a few nanometers thick. Nevertheless, this catalyst still displays a relatively high activity at 700 °C. Reprinted from ref 215, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
In previous work, CNFs had been shown to be active in the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane, although in this case surface oxygen groups were believed to be the active sites. (252) Furthermore, nitrogen doped carbon nanotubes (CNTs) showed some activity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, although conversion and selectivity were relatively low. (253)
Liu et al. prepared carbon-based ordered mesoporous systems that showed activity in the dehydrogenation of propane in the absence of steam or oxidants. (254) The active sites were proposed to be oxygen-containing groups (C═O), which are formed during a pretreatment step involving nitric acid. The catalyst shows remarkable long-term stability, displaying conversion and selectivity values of 45% and 85%, respectively, after 100 h of time on stream at 600 °C. Experiments in which carbon nanotubes were tested under similar conditions resulted in low activity.
Neylon et al. studied the activity of supported early transition metal (groups 5 and 6) nitrides and carbides in butane dehydrogenation, (255, 256) as the catalytic properties of these materials are believed to be similar to those of platinum. Interestingly, Mo, V, and W carbides and nitrides showed activity in both dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, displaying specific activities similar to those of a commercial Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst. Niobium carbide and nitride did not show any activity. The group 6 compounds tested were found to be more active, albeit they primarily catalyzed hydrogenolysis. In Table 8 are shown the catalytic data of the carbon-based dehydrogenation catalysts as reported by McGregor et al. and Liu et al.
In addition, silica supported metal sulfides, such as ZnS, FeS, CuS, CoS, MnS, NiS, and MoS, were tested for the dehydrogenation of isobutane, and were found to perform significantly better than their respective oxides. The materials show higher initial yields than commercial CrOx and Pt–Sn catalyst, but they deactivate over a few hours due to sulfur leaching. (257)
Table 8. Summary of the Catalytic Data of Carbon-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)a selectivity (%)a specific activity (s–1)b kd (h–1) catalyst lifec (h) ref
(1) coked 3.5 wt % VOx/Al2O3; CNF 700 GHSV = 72 (at a pressure of 0.5 bar) C4H10 = 3, N2 = 97 50; 41 80; 80 to 1- and 1–3-butene     3 215
(2) mesoporous carbon 600 WHSV = 0.59 C3H8 = 5, N2 = 95 69.3–44.5 62.2–85.1 8.21 × 10–5 0.010 100 254
aFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
bSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol C═O group*t(s)).
cCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.7 Other Formulations
Indium is known to share many of the catalytic properties of gallium, a prominent example being the activity that both metals display in NOx reduction. (258) These similarities are relatively unsurprising, particularly taking into account the adjacency of Ga and In within the same group of the periodic table. Interestingly, Halasz et al. have tested the reactivity of propane on Ga- and In-loaded ZSM-5 and found both catalysts to be active in PDH and display similar activity and selectivity values. (259) However, both Ga/ZSM-5 and In/ZSM-5 did not exclusively yield propylene, but also larger aromatic molecules. Whereas dehydrogenation and aromatization activity were found to be associated with Lewis acidity, cracking and coke formation were related to Brønsted acidity.
Chen et al. mixed In2O3 with other metal oxides in an effort to obtain an active PDH catalyst. (260) A mixed oxide consisting of 20% In2O3 and 80% Al2O3 showed the highest propylene yield, as shown in Figure 27. Small In2O3 clusters on the surface of the catalyst were reduced under reaction conditions to form small metallic In particles. Because no correlation between surface acidity and reactivity was observed, these metallic particles were believed to be the species active in dehydrogenation. The reduction of these particles is a slow process during reaction, and thus a considerable amount of time is required to attain the optimal yields. By prereducing the catalyst with hydrogen, high conversions were immediately obtained. Similar conclusions were reached in a study involving a series of oxide-supported In2O3-based catalysts prepared by incipient wetness impregnation. (261) Al2O3 and ZrO2 were more suitable supports than SiO2, as the interaction of the indium oxide was stronger with the former carriers, resulting in a better distribution of small nanoparticles.
CO2 was reported by the same authors to have a beneficial effect, which was ascribed to the occurrence of the reverse water–gas shift reaction (RWGS). Furthermore, sufficiently high CO2:hydrocarbon ratios proved capable of retarding catalyst deactivation.
Figure 27
Figure 27. Propane conversion on a series of 20% In–80% metal mixed oxides showing InAlOx to be the most active formulation (left). Albeit other In:Al ratios were tested, 20% In–80% Al afforded the highest propylene yield. The TPR profiles of different In–Al mixed oxides after H2 reduction at 500 °C and subsequent treatment with CO2 at 600 °C are also shown (right). The peak at around 700 °C (labeled β) represents the reduction of In2O3 to In0; the total hydrogen consumption showing the In2O3 is nearly completely reduced to In0. The peak at 300 °C (labeled α) corresponds to the reduction of small In2O3 domains in the mixed oxide and suggests the formation of small metallic In particles. The absence of this peak in the top trace suggests that CO2 cannot reoxidize these particles at 600 °C. The graph to the left is reprinted from ref 260, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier. The graph to the right is reprinted from ref 262, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Albeit supported iron oxides have been known to be active in ethylbenzene dehydrogenation since 1946, (264) it was not until the 1990s that Geus and co-workers investigated the activity of supported iron oxide in the dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1–3 butadiene. (265-268) The authors determined that Fe3+ is the catalytically active species. The catalysts deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and reduction of Fe2O3 to Fe3O4. However, catalyst stability is significantly enhanced by the addition of potassium. On the one hand, K stabilizes the active phase by forming KFeO2, which donates electrons to the active iron species and prevents their reduction. On the other hand, the acidic groups responsible for coke formation are poisoned by potassium ions. Optimal stability was obtained with a FeOx monolayer, regardless of the type of support employed. An interesting sulfate-promoted FeOx/Al2O3 catalytic system was reported by Sun et al., which showed excellent activity in propane dehydrogenation, accompanied by relatively high stability. (269) The sulfate groups were found to withdraw electrons from Fe, enhancing the acidity of Fe sites and improving activity. Unfortunately, the sulfate groups were not completely stable, and the loss of sulfate groups as SO2 resulted in the irreversible deactivation of the catalyst by carburization and sintering.
In a recent publication by Yun et al., an active propane dehydrogenation catalyst was obtained by incorporating Fe ions in the framework of ZSM-5 zeolites. The catalytic activity was explained by the redox properties of these sites (Fe2+ and Fe3+ redox cycle) that resulted in the formation of radical intermediates. (270) Shimada et al. investigated the use of activated carbon, promoted by Fe, as a catalyst for the dehydrogenation of isobutane. (250) In the absence of iron, activated carbon was only able to afford an isobutene yield of ∼10%, albeit this value increased to 40% upon the addition of 3.5 wt % Fe3O4 in the presence of CO2. In addition to dehydrogenation, the iron oxide also catalyzes the RWGS reaction. Indeed, XRD results show that the iron oxide is reduced by the hydrocarbon feed, and subsequently reoxidized by the CO2 in the feed.
The conversion of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention. (100, 271-275) Isolated Zn2+ species with a tetrahedral orientation were deemed to be the active sites, with a reaction mechanism similar to that reported on GaOx-based dehydrogenation catalysts. (276-280) These species resided in the cation exchange sites of the zeolite, effectively providing the counter-charge for two Al species. The proximity of Al species was found to be important, as calculations show basic Al-bound oxygen is required to perform the C–H cleavage and form an Al–OH group. This is important, as, similar to Ga, Zn–H and Zn–OH groups are difficult to regenerate. Furthermore, these species were found to be highly stable, which is important as volatile Zn species may be formed at dehydrogenation reaction conditions.
The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides. Chen et al. investigated mixed oxides with different zinc to titanium ratios and found that a Zn:Ti ratio of 2 resulted in the most active catalyst. Cubic Zn2TiO3 was deemed to be the active species in dehydrogenation, although the overall activity of these catalysts was found to be limited. (281-283) More recently, isolated Zn2+ species deposited on a silica support were found to be active in propane dehydrogenation. (284) The active sites were determined to be coordinatively unsaturated Zn2+ Lewis acids sites located on a tri-membered siloxane ring on the silica support. During the catalytic reaction, the Zn is transformed to tricoordinated species due to the temperature increase. DFT calculations suggested a reaction mechanism akin to that observed over CrOx and GaOx catalysts.
In Table 9 are shown the catalytic activity data of the indium- and iron-based dehydrogenation catalysts discussed.
Table 9. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Indium and Iron-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) In2Al8O15 600 WHSV = 0.15 C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 10, N2 = 87.5 35.7–29.3 (3 h, 8 h) 76.5–77.5 2.22 × 10–6 0.058 8 260
(2) 10 wt % In2O3/Al2O3 600 WHSV = 0.15 C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 10, N2 = 87.5 21–24–21 (30 m, 3 h, 8 h) 29–83–85 5.41 × 10–6 0.034 8 261
(3) 6 wt % K–3.1 wt % FeO2/MgO 600 WHSV = 0.35 1-C4H8 = 5, H2O = 30, N2 = 65 39–25 80–82 to 1–3-butadiene   0.67 20 266
(4) 3.4 wt % Fe3O4/Cact 650 WHSV = 7 i-C4H10 = 30, CO2 = 70 32–20 (0.5 h, 4.5 h) 71–65 (to i-C4H8)   0.16 4.5 250
aBecause catalyst reduction by the hydrocarbon stream tends to be a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity, the table shows both optimal and final conversion values along with the corresponding selectivity. The times at which these conversions are obtained are shown in parentheses.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol ln*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
5 Comparing Different Catalysts
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
5.1 In Terms of Reaction Mechanism and Deactivation Pathway
Even though the dehydrogenation reaction has been studied for almost a century, the exact mechanism is still a topic under debate, particularly because this reaction is catalyzed by a vast array of materials as different as noble metals and transition metal oxides. The so-called Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, which was proposed in 1934, is most commonly used to describe catalytic dehydrogenation reactions. (285) This mechanism follows Langmuir–Hinshelwood kinetics, where all of the surface sites of the catalyst are considered to be identical. The Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism consists of four main steps: dissociative adsorption of the paraffin, C–H cleavage of a second hydrogen atom, formation of a hydrogen molecule, and subsequent desorption of both the hydrogen and the olefin, as is shown in Scheme 2a–g. (286) Notably, both C–H cleavage steps (229, 263, 287-289) and the dissociative adsorption of the paraffin have been suggested as the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenation reaction. (96, 98, 144, 290)
Several studies have been performed on Pt and Pt–Sn catalysts to gain a detailed understanding of the mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction. First, isotopic labeling experiments have been used to identify the reaction intermediates. For example, cofeeding D2 during ethane dehydrogenation resulted in a single deuterium being attached to the ethane molecules, suggesting an ethyl reaction intermediate. (291) However, because the dehydrogenation reaction is an equilibrium-controlled reaction, compounds can react back and forth leading to isotopic scrambling, which complicates the interpretation of experimental results.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Dehydrogenation Mechanism As Proposed by Horiuti and Polanyi on a Pt Surfacea
Scheme aThe intermediates depicted have been observed by IR spectroscopy during the hydrogenation reaction at low temperatures and are supported by theoretical calculations. The dissociative adsorption of propane may also take place by the abstraction of the β-hydrogen, forming a 2-propyl intermediate, but for brevity this pathway is not shown. High paraffin pressures favor the formation of propylidyne species (step h-j), which are coke precursors. These species are relatively stable and can only be hydrogenated when high concentrations of hydrogen are present on the Pt surface. (292-297)
Infrared spectroscopy is another valuable tool to detect intermediates formed during dehydrogenation reactions on Pt-based catalysts. Because of experimental limitations, this is done through the study of the reverse hydrogenation reaction, which takes places at considerably lower temperatures. This approach assumes that the same reaction intermediates are encountered, which needs to be verified due to the significantly different reaction conditions. During the adsorption of ethylene on both Pt and Pt–Sn surfaces at temperatures ranging from −100 to 27 °C, several species are detected, including ethylidyne as well as π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene (the propylene analogues of which are shown in Scheme 2). (116, 117, 298-300) Cremer et al. used sum frequency generation IR to elucidate the role of these ethylene adspecies on a Pt (111) surface. (301, 302) During ethylene hydrogenation, ethylidyne was found to be a spectator species, although one competing for active sites on the catalyst surface. On the other hand, π-bonded ethylene was determined to be the main intermediate of ethylene hydrogenation, although di-σ-bonded ethylene was also converted at a lower rate. Ethyl groups are only detected at very high hydrogen pressures, as these species readily convert to di-σ-ethylene otherwise. Nevertheless, Zaera et al. have reported that the reaction mechanism of ethylene hydrogenation involves a π-bonded ethylene and an ethyl intermediate. (303) Furthermore, when propylene adsorption on Pt (111) was studied by reflection–absorption IR spectroscopy, most of the propylene was found to be coordinated as di-σ-bonded, albeit π-bonded propylene was found to predominate at high surface coverages. (292) On the contrary, DFT calculations showed that propylene is preferentially adsorbed in the disigma mode. (75, 114) DFT calculations performed on Pt, Pt3Sn, and Pt2Sn (111) surfaces during the PDH reaction have revealed that the dissociative adsorption of the alkane is the rate-limiting step. In the presence of Sn, this energy barrier is increased, as is shown in Figure 28, therefore decreasing the activity of the catalyst. (114, 118) On Pt (111) the dehydrogenation may proceed by a 1- or a 2-propyl intermediate, while on the Pt–Sn alloys the 1-propyl intermediate is favored. The positive effect of Sn on catalytic activity is explained by the facile desorption of propylene, which hinders further dehydrogenation of the adsorbed propylene.
Figure 28
Figure 28. Energy profiles for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on Pt (111) (black), Pt3Sn (111) (blue), and Pt2Sn (111) (red) surfaces, as obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates are shown along with their corresponding energies. The recombination of the hydrogen adatoms is not considered. (114) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Microcalorimetry has afforded complementary information on the dehydrogenation mechanism over Pt-based catalysts, a lower heat of adsorption of ethylene being detected on the Pt–Sn relative to the Pt surface (94–135 and 157 kJ mol–1, respectively). (117, 296) These relatively high heat of adsorption values are generally indicative of the dissociative adsorption of a hydrocarbon. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations on the adsorption of ethane on different Pt and Pt–Sn alloy surfaces, (111) and (211), have revealed that electron transfer takes place from Sn to Pt. Keeping in mind the fact that Sn addition reduces the heat of adsorption, the formation of ethylidyne becomes energetically less favorable because of this electron transfer. (117, 118, 289, 304) In addition, by studying these different Pt–Sn alloys, it was shown that the presence of Sn reduces the amount of highly active Pt step sites, on which reaction intermediates adsorb strongly. (304) The latter observation is rendered particularly noteworthy by the fact that isotopic labeling experiments, performed by Galvita et al. during ethane dehydrogenation, have revealed that ethylene can form methane and coke through cracking, the conversion proceeding via an ethylidyne intermediate. (132, 290)
The dehydrogenation mechanism on chromia-based catalysts is somewhat different, as both the chromium and the oxygen atoms of the oxide are believed to participate in the reaction. (305) Quantum chemical methods (DFT) have been used by Lillehaug et al. to study the mechanism of ethane dehydrogenation on a series of clusters containing a single Cr3+ ion bonded to O–H or O–Si groups species, which served as a model for the different active sites suggested in literature. (306, 307) The first step they proposed is C–H activation via σ-bond metathesis resulting in the formation of Cr–C and O–H bonds, followed by a β-H transfer to a Cr site. (306, 308) The final step proposed is the formation of hydrogen and the desorption of the latter and ethylene. An alternative mechanism, in which a Cr–H species activates ethane by forming molecular hydrogen and an adsorbed ethyl species, has been proposed on the basis of the results of isotopic labeling experiments performed during ethane dehydrogenation on a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. (144) The two main mechanisms proposed for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes on chromia/alumina catalysts are shown in Scheme 3. In these mechanisms, either the dissociative adsorption (144, 305) or β-H elimination is believed to be the rate-limiting step. (306, 309, 310) Figure 29 shows two reaction cycles in an energy diagram, as calculated by Lillehaug et al. Indeed, the energy barrier is the highest for the initial C–H activation, although this energy is significantly lower when the bond is activated by the Cr–H intermediate (i.e., the right part of Scheme 3). Nevertheless, hydrogen desorption is preferred, as the energy barrier is lower.
In situ FTIR spectroscopy has provided evidence of the formation of acetaldehyde and acetone intermediates as ethane and propane are adsorbed on a mesoporous chromia–alumina catalyst. (197) Furthermore, during the dehydrogenation of propane on a CrOx catalyst, surface species including aliphatic, unsaturated, and aromatic carbon species, along with acetates and carboxylates, have been detected by diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS). (192, 197, 311) This is consistent with a model in which the first step of the reaction is the abstraction of hydrogen from the alkane to form an alkoxide species (ethoxide and isopropoxide being formed from ethane and propane, respectively). However, the reduction of the catalyst prior to the dehydrogenation reaction led to a dramatic decrease in the amounts of acetates and carboxylates detected, albeit the reaction rate remained unaffected. Evidently, the latter throws into question the role of acetic and carboxylic species as reaction intermediates. An alternative interpretation is that these species are formed during the reduction of the Cr6+ species by hydrocarbons present in the feed. Parenthetically, the involvement of hydrocarbons in the formation of reduced active chromium sites, the participation of both chromium and oxygen atoms in the reaction, and the proposition that C–H activation represents the first reaction step are somewhat reminiscent of the Phillips catalyst and of the mechanism of ethylene polymerization recently proposed by Copéret and co-workers over this formulation. (312, 313) However, additional work will be necessary to investigate the relationship between the mechanisms of ethylene polymerization and ethane dehydrogenation, particularly in view of the different nature of the reactions and the reaction conditions.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms for the Dehydrogenation of Ethane on CrOx Catalysts (144, 306, 307)
Figure 29
Figure 29. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on CrOx catalyst obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates from Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that for the second section of the scheme, a second propane molecule is dehydrogenated. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
The reaction mechanism on GaOx has been studied by Liu et al. by DFT calculations on a Ga (100) surface (Figure 30). (231) A mechanism similar to that shown in Scheme 3 was proposed, except for the fact that the initial C–H activation takes place involving a radical, which can adsorb on the Ga site as an ethyl species, or directly undergo the second C–H cleavage step. The desorption of both hydrogen and propylene was found to be energetically unfavorable, which was used to explain the rapid coking and the relative low activity of GaOx-based dehydrogenation catalysts. Indeed, while heating Ga2O3 in an ethane atmosphere, the evolution of Ga-ethyl and hydroxyl surface species was observed by DRIFTS at 150 °C. (316)
Figure 30
Figure 30. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on GaOx catalyst, as determined by DFT calculations on a Ga (100) surface. Intermediates analogous to those displayed in Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that two pathways for the dehydrogenation of propane are considered, one involving a radical intermediate and another an ethyl intermediate, the former having a lower energy barrier. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
To summarize, most of the experimental results suggest that the dehydrogenation of light alkanes proceeds via the Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, where either the dissociative adsorption of the alkane or the second C–H bond cleavage is the rate-determining step. Evidence of fundamental differences in the reaction mechanism on metal oxide and noble metal catalysts is lacking, although reports of mechanistic studies involving metal oxide catalysts are admittedly scant.
All dehydrogenation catalysts deactivate with time-on-stream, several processes being responsible for the deactivation of the different types of catalysts discussed in this Review. However, there has been a clear consensus in the literature since the mid-1970s identifying coke deposition as the main cause of deactivation. (77, 317-319) Coke is a collective name given to a large family of highly graphitized hydrocarbon molecules that tend to form on the catalyst surface during reaction. Coke accumulation effectively hinders the diffusion of reactants to the catalyst surface by blocking both pores and active sites, which results in a drop in catalytic activity. Therefore, the detrimental effect of coke is largely dependent on catalyst design and the location of the coke deposits. (320)
The process of coke formation is very complex and not very well understood. Brønsted acid and others active sites of the catalysts serve as seeding points to which olefins and paraffins are added until large graphitic structures are formed. Indeed, olefins in the stream can easily react with the carbocation intermediates formed on these acid sites. Additionally, strong adsorption of reaction intermediates, such as the ethylidyne or ethyne species discussed above, (75, 132, 290) and/or products on active sites can also induce polymerization and lead to the formation of graphitic sheets. In Scheme 4, several pathways for the formation of the first aromatic ring structures from propylidyne and similar molecules are proposed, which include cracking, deep dehydrogenation, and polymerization reactions.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Proposed Pathway Linking the Formation of Strongly Adsorbed Propyl Species to That of an Aromatic Ring through a Series of Cracking (a–e), Deep Dehydrogenation (f–i), and/or Dimerization (f,g,j,k) Reactions (293, 294, 321)a
Scheme aNote that the adsorbed hydrocarbons shown in the scheme are examples of species formed on the Pt surface, and that they actually represent a family of similar species.
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Proposed Mechanisms for the Growth of Polyaromatic Species by Either Diels–Alder-type Addition, Propylene Addition via Radical Chemistry, or Fusion of Small Domains into Larger Ones (322, 323)a
Scheme aThe species will continue to grow in a similar fashion, and at a certain point are considered to be graphene-like sheets. The molecules in the scheme are only simplified hydrogen-deficient coke precursors that may be present on the surface of the catalyst. Such species are directly bonded to the Pt surface and in reality will contain significant amounts of hydrogen, either in hydrogen-terminated aromatic rings or in aliphatic side chains.
Coke species may grow from the resulting aromatic rings by either Diels–Alder-type addition, propylene addition to a radical, or fusion of smaller domains, as shown in Scheme 5. When these polyaromatic species are still relatively small, they can also migrate from the metal to the support (where they can undergo further oligomerization and condensation). In fact, the addition of Sn to the Pt-based catalyst facilitates this migration by weakening the binding of the hydrocarbon to the metal. (304, 324, 325) In addition, acid sites present on the support may protonate these small polyaromatics, making them more reactive toward gas-phase olefins. (322, 326) Nevertheless, studies on these processes are scant, which is why the mechanism explaining the progression from adsorbed atomic carbon to aromatic rings is still largely unknown. Therefore, more detailed studies are needed to better understand this process. For example, it would be beneficial to gain a fundamental understanding on the steps proposed in Schemes 4 and 5 to develop strategies to prevent coke formation through these routes.
The location of coke is very important, as coke on the support has a milder negative effect on catalyst activity. (320, 324) However, it is important to note that the presence of carbon deposits on the surface does not always negatively influence catalyst performance. Indeed, a low amount of coke deposition has been observed to increase the catalytic activity by facilitating the adsorption of the alkane near the active dehydrogenation site. (320) Furthermore, highly active sites responsible for side reactions, such as hydrogenolysis, are the first to be poisoned by coke, resulting in higher selectivity to the olefin product. Coke becomes detrimental when large graphitic sheets are formed that cover the catalytically active sites. (173, 180) To address this coke-induced deactivation, a regeneration step under an oxidative atmosphere has been incorporated to industrial dehydrogenation processes. This process is relatively straightforward, as coke is easily combusted in air at dehydrogenation reaction temperatures. The ambivalent nature of coke deposits is further highlighted by the fact that their presence on deactivated catalysts is essential in the industrial processes that use coke combustion as the main source of the heat required to run the dehydrogenation reaction.
Several strategies have been applied to control coke formation. For example, coke deposition can be dramatically reduced by using a support with little to no Brønsted acidity, or by poisoning the acid sites. Changes in the reaction conditions, such as cofeeding steam, hydrogen, or CO2, can reduce coke formation, (324, 327, 328) whereas high partial pressures of olefins and paraffins exacerbate coke deposition. Even the nature of the alkane reactant has an effect, as coke formed during propane dehydrogenation on a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst is reported to be more detrimental than coke formed during ethane dehydrogenation (although such a comparison is difficult because these reactions run at different temperatures). (132) Alternatively, coke deposition can be reduced by adding a promoter element, the addition of Sn to Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts being the best-known example.
5.2 In Terms of Propane and Isobutane Dehydrogenation Performance
Given that a large variety of catalysts are active in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of C2–C4 paraffins, as documented in Tables 3–9, a comprehensive comparison of the activity and stability of these catalysts is desirable, particularly because said comparison stands to reveal qualitative differences between various formulations. We have attempted this comparison focusing on three performance criteria, olefin yield (obtained at the start of the experiment), stability (expressed as the deactivation rate), and the space velocity at which the first two criteria were measured (expressed as WHSV). In this approach, the effects of various factors, such as pressure, temperature, preparation method, promoter, and catalyst support, are not considered. The reasons to ignore these effects include the fact that this information is missing in many articles (pressure being a notable example), the absence of a clear trend (as tends to be the case with temperature), and an excessively large variance within a single variable to allow a meaningful comparison (catalyst preparation being an instance of such a variable). It is important to note that catalysts were only included in this comparison if the space velocity, deactivation rate, and initial yield could be determined from the information provided in the original source. Also of note is the fact that the performance criteria compared were measured during propane or isobutane dehydrogenation, which are the reactions that have been researched most intensively.
Figure 31
Figure 31. Propylene yield during propane dehydrogenation (left) and isobutene yield during isobutane dehydrogenation (right) versus the deactivation rate of catalysts included in Tables 3–9. Each data point is labeled with the number included in the first column of the relevant table, to distinguish between different catalysts. Catalyst systems displaying high yields combined with low deactivation rates are preferred.
In Figure 31, the yields of propylene and isobutene are plotted versus the deactivation rate of Pt-, CrOx-, GaOx-, and In2O3-based catalysts. Moreover, in the plot showing PDH results, the data points representing the catalytic performance of different catalyst types are grouped around similar values, the best initial yields being similar for Pt and CrOx and slightly higher for GaOx. Additionally, PDH results show that the different catalyst types deactivate at different speeds, with Pt being particularly stable, CrOx deactivating rapidly, and other systems deactivating even faster. Another interesting observation stemming from the PDH data is that within each type of catalyst high yields often coincide with relatively low deactivation rates, which is counterintuitive. Although considerably fewer data points are available for the isobutane dehydrogenation, the Pt-based catalysts also display a superior stability as compared to the metal oxides at similar yields. Notably, the VOx-based catalysts show excellent yields (∼40%), albeit they deactivate very fast.
Space velocity is another important factor that has been considered to compare the performance of different dehydrogenation catalysts. In Figure 32 are plotted propylene and isobutene yield aagainst the weight hourly space velocity (WHSV).
Figure 32
Figure 32. Yield of propylene and isobutene versus WHSV (left and right, respectively) of the catalysts included in Tables 3–9. High yields obtained at high space velocities are preferred. Therefore, because Pt-based catalysts can afford comparable yields to catalysts based on metal oxides while operating at higher space velocities, they are deemed superior in this respect.
To be commercially attractive, dehydrogenation catalysts must provide high olefin yields at high space velocities. In other words, catalysts should display high specific activity, which is to say good conversion at short contact times. Figure 32 illustrates that while the yields obtained over GaOx-, CrOx-, and Pt-based propane dehydrogenation catalysts are comparable, GaOx-, CrOx-, and Pt-based catalysts operate at relatively low, intermediate, and high space velocities, respectively.
Taking into account that Pt-based catalysts typically have low loadings (<1 wt %), whereas GaOx- and CrOx-based catalysts generally have loadings between 5 and 20 wt %, it is clear that on a weight basis Pt represents the most active formulation in PDH. This is confirmed when the average specific activities from Tables 3–9 are compared to one another. Indeed, for the dehydrogenation of propane on Pt-based catalysts, the average specific activity is 2.86 × 10–1 s–1, which is considerably higher than the average specific activities over CrOx and GaOx, which are 7.49 × 10–5 and 8.17 × 10–5, respectively. In Scheme 6, the proposed active sites for propane dehydrogenation of these three catalysts are shown. In the case of platinum-based catalysts, any Pt0 atom located at the surface is believed to catalyze the reaction, while in CrOx- and GaOx-based catalysts Cr3+ and Ga3+ must be coordinatively unsaturated to display catalytic activity. This similarity between the active sites of Ga- and Cr-containing catalyst, and their difference to Pt, may therefore explain the relative specific activity values of these formulations.
However, it should be noted that specific activity values are a very rough approximation of the real TOF of these catalysts. In case of Pt catalysts, all Pt (not only the surface Pt) is taken into account in our specific activity calculation, and additional errors are introduced for the metal oxides. In the case of CrOx catalysts, only coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species are active in the dehydrogenation reaction, yet our specific activity calculations take into account a considerable amount of species that are either coordinatively saturated or in a different oxidation state. Although Ga3+ is likely the only stable species during the dehydrogenation reaction, our specific activity calculation involving GaOx catalysts considers a significant amount of the Ga that is either present in the framework of the support or incorporated in larger Ga2O3 crystallites. Nevertheless, the difference between the specific activity calculated for Pt and the metal oxides is in the range of 4 orders of magnitude, which cannot be explained solely by the errors introduced in our calculations. For the dehydrogenation of isobutane, the same differences of specific activities between the Pt and metal oxide catalysts are observed.
It is important to mention that catalysts tend to deactivate faster when higher space velocities are used. Notably, metal oxide-based catalysts deactivate faster than the Pt-based formulations, despite the fact that the latter are commonly used at higher space velocities, which highlights the remarkable stability of Pt catalysts.
The differences in the specific activity values described previously could be explained by comparing the activation energies calculated by DFT methods previously discussed in section 4. In these calculations, the energy barrier for the rate limiting step on Pt–Sn system is lower (109 kJ mol–1) than in the CrOx and GaOx catalysts (161 and 163 kJ mol–1, respectively). Ea affects the reaction rate, as described by the Arrhenius equation:
where k is the reaction rate constant, A is the pre-exponential factor, R is the gas constant, and T is the temperature. By calculating k/A at a temperature of 600 °C and assuming A is comparable for the three systems considered, the rate constant is ∼103 times higher for the Pt–Sn catalysts as compared to the metal oxide catalysts. The difference in the calculated specific activity values for propane dehydrogenation on the Pt and metal oxide catalysts (Tables 3, 4, and 7) is approximately 104, as is shown in Scheme 6. The higher activity observed for the Pt-based catalysts may therefore be explained by the significantly lower energy barrier of the rate-limiting step. However, care must be taken when comparing these Ea values, as the methods used for obtaining these are not identical. Furthermore, these simulations assume model surfaces that do not resemble real catalyst systems, and therefore the results are not necessarily representative of the experimentally observed reaction rates. Nevertheless, these combined theoretical and experimental data are very encouraging and highlight the need for more extensive studies on the reaction rate on Pt- and metal oxide-based dehydrogenation catalysts.
To summarize, although metal oxide-based catalysts can afford yields comparable to those obtained using Pt-based formulations, the latter can operate at higher space velocities and exhibit lower deactivation rates than metal oxide catalysts.
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Proposed Active Sites for the Pt-, CrOx-, and GaOx-Based Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts, the Order of Magnitude of Their Calculated Specific Activity, and the Reaction Rates (k/A) Calculated by DFT
6 Conclusions and Emerging Areas of Research
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Because of their widespread use as feedstock in the chemical industry, the demand for olefins is expected to remain high for the foreseeable future. Additionally, the recent surge in shale gas production has rendered the cost of natural gas very economical as compared to that of crude oil. Therefore, alternative methods for obtaining olefins, dehydrogenation and MTO, have become very competitive relative to more traditional methods, such as fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking. Indeed, dozens of new PDH projects have been announced in the past few years. The installations proposed or being built will employ either CrOx/Al2O3 (Catofin) or Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (Oleflex) catalysts. These catalysts and technologies have been advanced to a point where the reaction can be run continuously for several years. Nevertheless, current dehydrogenation technologies still offer room for improvement, and thus further advances are needed to lower noble metal loading, increase catalyst stability, and/or improve the energy efficiency of the dehydrogenation process. Moreover, steps will need to be taken to overcome the reactions biggest drawbacks, that is, the limited equilibrium conversion and the prevalence of side reactions at high temperatures.
Although alternative catalysts, most notably metal oxides such as GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, have received significant attention over the last decades, a practicable alternative to the Pt–Sn and CrOx systems has not yet been developed. Indeed, these alternative formulations deactivate too fast, mainly due to coke deposition and to the fact that their activity cannot be fully recovered by a regeneration step. Thus, further research will also be necessary to address these issues.
Nevertheless, advancements can also be expected in other areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation does not have the thermodynamic limitations shown by nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Because an oxidant combusts the hydrogen formed during reaction, full conversion of the paraffin can be achieved. O2 and CO2 have been the most investigated oxidizing agents, each having distinct advantages and disadvantages. In the case of O2, coke deposition is nonexistent, the reaction temperature can be lowered to about 400 °C, and the dehydrogenation reaction becomes exothermic (H2 + 1/2O2 ↔ H2O (ΔH2980 = −242 kJ mol–1)). Nevertheless, new challenges arise as overoxidation of the hydrocarbons in the feed must be avoided to maintain high olefin selectivity. (252, 329, 330) CO2, being a much milder oxidant, can effectively consume H2 under dehydrogenation conditions, although it is not reactive enough to oxidize the hydrocarbons in the reaction mixture. However, much less heat is formed when CO2 is used, so the dehydrogenation reaction remains endothermic (H2 + CO2 ↔ H2O + CO (ΔH2980 = 41 kJ mol–1)), as the RWGS does not provide enough heat to compensate for the highly endothermic dehydrogenation reaction. The cofeeding of CO2 may result in additional coke deposition, due to the increased CO and decreased H2 partial pressures brought about by the reverse water–gas shift reaction. On the other hand, coke may be gasified by CO2. Finally, CO2 competitively adsorbs on the surface, specifically on the basic sites of the catalyst materials, which can negatively affect their performance. (162, 175, 331) In short, finding a suitable combination of catalyst material and oxidizing agent will be pivotal in the development of an effective reaction system for the oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.
An alternative solution lies in the use of solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, and BiO3, capable of selectively oxidizing the hydrogen evolved by the SHC reaction. (332-334) Noble metals, such as Pt and Au, can also catalyze the SHC process, but in this case oxygen is cofed to facilitate the hydrogen combustion. (335, 336) Because the SHC reaction consumes the lattice oxygen of metal oxide catalysts, the latter require frequent regeneration with oxygen. Moreover, the reaction rate is relatively low and some of these metal oxides are highly toxic. These issues need to be resolved for this approach to become viable for industrial application.
Another method of removing the hydrogen from the reaction mixture is the introduction of membranes to the reactor system. This approach allows hydrogen to diffuse out of the reactor, shifting the equilibrium toward the desired olefin product. (337-344) A large variety of membranes have been investigated, such as Pd-coated mesoporous alumina, Pt–Ag composites, and membranes involving either molybdenum- or carbon-based molecular sieves. The inverse relationship between permeability and selectivity of the membranes is a serious problem, as both qualities are desired. Catalyst deactivation represents an additional challenge, as coke deposition increases when the hydrogen partial pressure drops. Nevertheless, nearly all studies report increased olefin yields when a membrane system is used.
It is very important to heed the interplay between catalyst deactivation and regeneration in industrial settings. Indeed, for both the Pt and the CrOx formulations used industrially, the elimination of coke from the surface of the spent catalysts may result in irreversible catalyst deactivation if the regeneration conditions are not carefully controlled. Currently, this is done in a very crude manner, by monitoring the gas composition at the reactor outlet. However, recent reports suggest that in the near future, operando spectroscopy will provide the means for more sophisticated process control. (198) Indeed, Raman/UV–vis spectroscopy can be used to monitor noninvasively the amount and type of coke as the latter forms and accumulates on the catalyst surface. (173, 180, 345, 346) As is shown in Figure 33, spatiotemporal differences in the coke deposition on a catalyst bed consisting of CrOx/Al2O3 extrudates were visualized in a pilot scale reactor using two UV–vis probes, which collected spectra in a continuous fashion during propane dehydrogenation. (198) Coke deposition was observed to occur faster at the top of the catalyst bed, which was attributed to the temperature gradient measured in the reactor. Furthermore, coke combustion proceeded in an inhomogeneous fashion, coke at the top of the catalyst bed being combusted first.
Figure 33
Figure 33. To the left, a schematic representation of the pilot-scale reactor used for propane dehydrogenation is shown. Two UV–vis probes are inserted in the reactor to visualize the deactivation of the CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst as a function of time and catalyst bed height (the spectra acquired are shown in the center of the figure). This technique is excellent to visualize the coke-induced darkening of the catalyst extrudates from green to black, as is shown in the photographs to the right. Reproduced from ref 198, copyright 2013, by permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry.
These measurements show that the duration of the dehydrogenation and regeneration phases could be dynamically adjusted to keep the catalyst in its most active state, as moderate amounts of coke are believed to assist the dehydrogenation reaction while excessive amounts lead to catalyst deactivation (vide supra). The latter would undoubtedly represent an improvement to the way in which reversible deactivation is currently addressed. As an additional advantage, UV–vis spectroscopy can be used to monitor the long-term irreversible deactivation of the catalyst. Indeed, because the relative amounts of active chromia and of chromium that has become irreversibly deactivated due to its migration into the support can be measured by UV–vis spectroscopy, this technique provides a means to determine when the catalyst needs replacing.
This analysis has been taken a step further by designing, constructing, and testing probes for operando Raman spectroscopy, which were used to obtain information on the chemical nature of the coke deposits formed during reaction. Furthermore, by using the operando UV–vis spectra as a measure for catalyst darkening, a quantitative analysis of the coke deposits could be performed during the initial stages of the dehydrogenation reaction by operando Raman spectroscopy. (49, 180, 346)
Therefore, the monitoring of industrial chromia–alumina catalysts by combined time-resolved UV–vis and Raman spectroscopies can be employed to improve the overall efficiency of future alkane dehydrogenation processes.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Bert M. Weckhuysen - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands;  Email: b.m.weckhuysen@uu.nl
Authors
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands
Javier Ruiz-Martinez - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Biographies
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler was born in Veenendaal, The Netherlands, in 1986. He obtained his master’s degree in chemistry at Utrecht University. His thesis was on the subject of the intergrowth of zeolite materials studied by in situ microspectroscopy under the supervision of Dr. Marianne H. F. Kox and Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen. He continued working under the guidance of Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen for his Ph.D. research, which focusses on the deactivation of propane dehydrogenation catalysts.
Javier Ruiz-Martinez
Javier Ruiz-Martinez was born in Granada, Spain, in 1979. He completed his master’s degree in Chemical Engineering at the University of Granada and the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in 2003. After graduation, he started his Ph.D. under the supervision of Prof. Antonio Sepulveda-Escribano and Prof. Francisco Rodriguez-Reinoso at the University of Alicante, on the synthesis and characterization of Pt–Sn catalysts for selective hydrogenation and steam reforming reactions. During his Ph.D., he worked as a visiting researcher with Prof. James Anderson at the University of Aberdeen and with Prof. Burtron Davis and Dr. Gary Jacobs at the University of Kentucky Center for Applied Energy Research. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2009, he moved to Utrecht University as a postdoctoral research fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen, where he obtained a personal NWO Veni grant in 2012. Since October 2013, he is an assistant professor within the same group.
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez was born in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, in 1980. While studying chemistry at the Autonomous University of San Luis Potosi, he interned in the laboratory of Prof. David Atwood at the University of Kentucky (Lexington, KY), working on the removal of mercury from water. After graduation, he joined the University of Kentucky (UK) chemistry graduate program, performing his doctoral research on the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides at the UK Center for Applied Energy Research (CAER) and at the University of Alicante (Spain), under the guidance of Prof. Mark Crocker and Prof. Agustin Bueno-Lopez. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2008, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen at Utrecht University (The Netherlands), where part of his work centered on the study of propane dehydrogenation catalysts via operando spectroscopy. In 2010, he returned to the UK-CAER, where he now holds the position of Principal Research Scientist.
Bert M. Weckhuysen
Bert M. Weckhuysen was born in Aarschot, Belgium, in 1968. After receiving his Ph.D. in 1995 with Prof. Robert Schoonheydt from Leuven University, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow with Prof. Israel Wachs at Lehigh University and Prof. Jack Lunsford at Texas A&M University. Since 2000, he is full professor of inorganic chemistry and catalysis at Utrecht University. He has authored over 340 publications in peer-reviewed scientific journals. Weckhuysen has received several research awards for his work on in situ catalyst characterization, the most recent being the 2011 Paul H. Emmett Award in Fundamental Catalysis from the North American Catalysis Society, the 2012 International Catalysis Award from the International Association of Catalysis Societies, the 2013 Royal Society of Chemistry Bourke Award, and the 2013 Spinoza Award from The Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research.
Acknowledgment
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This work was funded by The Netherlands Research School Combination-Catalysis (NRSC-C). J.R.-M. also acknowledges NWO for his VENI grant. Jelle M. Boereboom is kindly acknowledged for designing Figures 12 and 20 and the table of content figure.
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 346 other publications.
1Budavari, S.; O’Neil, M.; Smith, A.; Heckelman, P.; Obenchain, J. In The Merck Index, 12th ed.; Budavari, S., Ed.; Merck & Co.: NJ, 1996; pp 1348– 1349.Google Scholar
2McCoy, M.; Reisch, M.; Tullo, A. H.; Short, P. L.; Tremblay, J.-F. Chem. Eng. News 2006, 84, 59[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
3Ethylene Uses and Market Data, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2007/11/05/9075777/ethylene-uses-and-market-data.html (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
4Market Study: Propylene (UC-1705), http://www.ceresana.com/en/market-studies/chemicals/propylene/ (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
5The Global Olefins and Polyolefins Markets in 2011 - Slow Growth in Demand Amid Political and Economical Crisis, http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/bdd2c0/the_global_olefins (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
6Nexant. Industry Report - Independent Market Report on the Global and Indonesian Petrochemicals Industry, http://www.chandra-asri.com/UserFiles/201105151926340.NexantIndustryReport2011.pdf (accessed Oct 20, 2013) .Google Scholar
7Radcliffe, C. The FCC unit as a propylene source, http://www.digitalrefining.com/article/1000312#.UmpROtK8BWQ (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
8Tullo, A. H. Chem. Eng. News 2012, 90, 10Google Scholar
9McFarland, E. Science 2012, 338, 340[Crossref], Google Scholar
10Torres Galvis, H. M.; de Jong, K. P. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 2130[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Stocker, M. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 1999, 29, 3[Crossref], Google Scholar
12Bullin, K.; Krouskop, P. Composition Variety Complicates Processing Plans for US Shale Gas, http://www.bre.com/portals/0/technicalarticles/KeithBullin-CompositionVariety_USShaleGas.pdf (accessed Oct 21, 2013) .Google Scholar
13Chemical Composition of Natural Gas, http://www.uniongas.com/about-us/about-natural-gas/Chemical-Composition-of-Natural-Gas#L (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
14America’s New Energy Future: The Unconventional Oil & Gas Revolution and the US Economy, http://www.ihs.com/info/ecc/a/americas-new-energy-future-report-vol-3.aspx (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
15Schut, J. H. How Shale Gas Is Changing Propylene, http://plasticsengineeringblog.com/2013/02/20/how-shale-gas-is-changing-propylene/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
16Propylene from Propane via Dehydrogenation (similar to UOP Oleflex), http://base.intratec.us/home/chemical-processes/propylene/propylene-from-propane-via-dehydrogenation (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
17Propylene from Propane via Dehydrogenation (similar to Lummus CATOFIN), http://base.intratec.us/home/chemical-processes/propylene/propylene-from-propane-via-dehydrogenation-2 (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
18Buonomo, F.; Sanfilippo, D.; Trifiro, F. In Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis; Ertl, G.; Knozinger, H.; Weitkamp, J., Eds.; Wiley-VHC Verlag GmbH: Weinheim, Germany, 1997; pp 2140– 2151.Google Scholar
19Alperowicz, N. Engineering & construction: Shale boom reinvigorates the industry, could lead to shortage of labor recources, http://www.chemweek.com/lab/Engineering-and-construction-Shale-boom-reinvigorates-the-industry-could-lead-to-shortage-of-labor-resources_52648.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
20Hua, L. China propane imports to surge on new PDH projects, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2013/05/21/9670487/china-propane-imports-to-surge-on-new-pdh-projects.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
21Shale Gas, Competitiveness, and New US Chemical Industry Investment: An Analysis Based on Announced Projects, http://chemistrytoenergy.com/sites/chemistrytoenergy.com/files/shale-gas-full-study.pdf (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
22Richardson, J. Market intelligence: BD capacity on the way, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/03/12/9539978/Market-intelligence-BD-capacity-on-the-way.html (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
23Richardson, J. Butadiene Oversupply Threat, http://www.icis.com/blogs/asian-chemical-connections/2012/05/butadiene-oversupply-threat/ (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
24Naylor, L. Lower Europe LLDPE imports support Europe pricing picture, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/03/12/9539978/Market-intelligence-BD-capacity-on-the-way.html (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
25Lopez, J. BASF, Linde plan to jointly develop butadiene technology, http://www.icis.com/resources/news/2014/06/03/9786384/basf-linde-plan-to-jointly-develop-butadiene-technology/ (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
26Bhasin, M. M.; McCain, J. H.; Vora, B. V.; Imai, T.; Pujadó, P. R. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 221, 397[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
27Vora, B. V. Top. Catal. 2012, 55, 1297[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Bricker, J. C. Top. Catal. 2012, 55, 1309[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Weckhuysen, B. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 223[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
30Jackson, S. D.; Stair, P. C.; Gladden, L. F.; McGregor, J. In Metal Oxide Catalysis; Jackson, S. D.; Hargreaves, J. S. J., Eds.; Wiley-VHC Verlag GmbH: Weinheim, Germany, 2009; pp 595– 612.Google Scholar
31Albonetti, S.; Cavani, F.; Trifiro, F. Catal. Rev.: Sci. Eng. 1996, 38, 413[Crossref], Google Scholar
32Cavani, F.; Ballarini, N.; Cericola, A. Catal. Today 2007, 127, 113[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Copéret, C. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 656[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
34Krylov, O. V.; Mamedov, A. K.; Mirzabekova, S. R. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 1995, 34, 474[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
35Wang, S.; Zhu, Z. H. Energy Fuels 2004, 18, 1126[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
36Ansari, M. B.; Park, S.-E. Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 9419[Crossref], Google Scholar
37Caspary, K. J.; Gehrke, H.; Heinritz-Adrian, M.; Schwefer, M. In Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis; Ertl, G.; Knozinger, H.; Weitkamp, J., Eds.; Wiley-VHC Verlag GmbH: Weinheim, Germany, 2008; pp 3206– 3229.Google Scholar
38Pujadó, P. R.; Vora, B. V. Hydrocarbon Process. 1990, 69, 65[CAS], Google Scholar
39Buyanov, R. A.; Pakhomov, N. A. Kinet. Catal. 2001, 42, 64[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
40Altani, A. M. Oil Gas Eur. Mag. 2004, 30, 36Google Scholar
41Tinnemans, S. J. Combined operando Raman/UV-Vis-NIR spectroscopy as a tool to study supported metal oxide catalysts at work. Ph.D. Thesis, Utrecht University, 2006.Google Scholar
42Research and Markets: China Propylene Market, 2013–2015, http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20130913005218/en/Research-Markets-China-Propylene-Market-2013-2015 (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
43Ondrey, G. UOP’s C3 Oleflex process selected for propylene plant in the U.S. Gulf Coast, http://www.che.com/only_on_che/latest_news/UOPs-C3-Oleflex-process-selected-for-propylene-plant-in-the-U-S-Gulf-Coast_10539.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
44Boswell, C. On-purpose technologies ready to fill propylene gap, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/04/16/9549968/on-purpose-technologies-ready-to-fill-propylene-gap.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
45Yu, L.; Chen, K. China Insight: Propane dehydrogenation projects boom, but risks loom, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/04/02/9546232/China-Insight-Propane-dehydrogenation-projects-boom-but-risks.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
46CATOFIN Dehydrogenation, http://www.cbi.com/images/uploads/tech_sheets/CatofinDehyrogenation-12.pdf (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
47Ercan, C.; Gartside, R. J. Can. J. Chem. Eng. 1996, 74, 626[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
48Sanfilippo, D.; Miracca, I. In Proceedings of the DGMK Conference “Oxidation and Functionalization: Classical and Alternative Routes and Sources”; Ernst, S.; Gallei, E.; Lercher, J. A.; Rossini, S.; Santacesaria, E., Eds.; German Society for Petroleum and Coal Science and Technology (DGMK): Hamburg, 2005; p 773.Google Scholar
49Nijhuis, T. A.; Tinnemans, S. J.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2004, 59, 5487[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
50UOP Oleflex process for light olefin production, http://pet-oil.blogspot.nl/2012/10/uop-oleflex-process-for-light-olefin.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
51Honeywell’s UOP Technology Selected For Petrochemical Production In China, http://www.dailyfinance.com/rtn/pr/honeywell-s-uop-technology-selected-for-petrochemical-production-in-china/rfid637412763/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
52CCR Platforming & Oleflex, http://www.uop.com/products/equipment/ccr-regeneration/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
53New Clariant CATOFIN Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts Delivers Significant Savings, http://newsroom.clariant.com/new-clariant-catofin-propane-dehydrogenation-catalyst-delivers-significant-savings/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
54Sanfilippo, D.; Miracca, I.; Trifiro, F. In Encyclopedia of Hydrocarbons: Refining and Petrochemicals; Amadei, C., Ed.; ENI: Rome, 2006; Vol. II, pp 687– 700.Google Scholar
55Jensen, S. F.; Roennekleiv, M.; Rytter, E.; Souraker, P. International Patent WO 2000072967 A1, 2000.Google Scholar
56The Uhde STAR process: Oxydehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, http://www.thyssenkrupp-uhde.de/fileadmin/documents/brochures/uhde_brochures_pdf_en_12.pdf (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
57Sinfelt, J. H. J. Phys. Chem. 1964, 68, 344[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
58Cortright, R. D.; Watwe, R. M.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 163, 91[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
59Willems, P. A.; Froment, G. F. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1988, 27, 1966[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
60Olah, G. A.; Molnar, A. Hydrocarbon Chemistry, 2nd ed.; Wiley Inc.: Hoboken, NJ, 2003; pp 30– 37.[Crossref], Google Scholar
61Rahimi, N.; Karimzadeh, R. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 398, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
62Barron, Y.; Maire, G.; Muller, J. M.; Gault, F. G. J. Catal. 1966, 5, 428[Crossref], Google Scholar
63Garin, F.; Aeiyach, S.; Legare, P.; Maire, G. J. Catal. 1982, 77, 323[Crossref], Google Scholar
64Olah, G. A.; Molnar, A. Hydrocarbon Chemistry, 2nd ed.; Wiley Inc.: Hoboken, NJ, 2003; pp 161– 185.[Crossref], Google Scholar
65Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Today 1999, 24, 141[Crossref], Google Scholar
66Dittmeyer, R.; Höllein, V.; Daub, K. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2001, 173, 135[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
67Ravanchi, M. T.; Kaghazchi, T.; Kargari, A. Desalination 2009, 235, 199[Crossref], Google Scholar
68Sheintuch, M.; Simakov, D. S. A. In Membrane Reactors for Hydrogen Production Processes; De Falco, M.; Marrelli, L.; Iaquaniello, G., Eds.; Springer-Verlag Ltd.: London, 2011; pp 183– 200.[Crossref], Google Scholar
69Rioux, R. M.; Song, H.; Hoefelmeyer, J. D.; Yang, P.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2192[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
70Song, H.; Rioux, R. M.; Hoefelmeyer, J. D.; Komor, R.; Niesz, K.; Grass, M.; Yang, P.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 3027[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
71Santhosh Kumar, M.; Chen, D.; Walmsley, J. C.; Holmen, A. Catal. Commun. 2008, 20, 747[Crossref], Google Scholar
72Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 3257[Crossref], Google Scholar
73Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 771[Crossref], Google Scholar
74Spivey, J. J.; Roberts, G. W.; Goodwin, J. G.; Kim, S.; Rhodes, W. D. In Catalysis; Spivey, J. J.; Roberts, G. W., Eds.; The Royal Society of Chemistry: London, 2004; pp 320– 348.Google Scholar
75Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2010, 321, 42[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
76Fiedorow, R. M. J.; Chahar, B. S.; Wanke, S. E. J. Catal. 1978, 51, 193[Crossref], Google Scholar
77Moulijn, J. A.; van Diepen, A. E.; Kapteijn, F. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 212, 3[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
78Nagai, Y.; Hirabayashi, T.; Dohmae, K.; Takagi, N.; Minami, T.; Shinjoh, H.; Matsumoto, S. J. Catal. 2006, 242, 103[Crossref], Google Scholar
79Adler, S. F.; Keavney, J. J. J. Phys. Chem. 1960, 64, 208[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
80Lieske, H.; Lietz, G.; Spindler, H.; Völter, J. J. Catal. 1983, 81, 8[Crossref], Google Scholar
81Lee, T. J.; Kim, Y. G. J. Catal. 1984, 90, 279[Crossref], Google Scholar
82Le Normand, F.; Borgna, A.; Garetto, T. F.; Apesteguia, C. R.; Moraweck, B. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 9068[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
83Monzon, A.; Garetto, T. F.; Borgna, A. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 248, 279[Crossref], Google Scholar
84Bocanegra, S. A.; Castro, A. A.; Guerrero-Ruíz, A.; Scelza, O. A.; de Miguel, S. R. Chem. Eng. J. 2006, 118, 161[Crossref], Google Scholar
85Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Shi, J.; Zhou, S.; Sheng, X.; Zhang, Z.; Xiang, S. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2014, 381, 138[Crossref], Google Scholar
86Casella, M. L.; Siri, G. J.; Santori, G. F.; Ferretti, O. A.; Ramirez-Corredores, M. M. Langmuir 2000, 16, 5639[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
87Siri, G. J.; Bertolini, G. R.; Casella, M. L.; Ferretti, O. A. Mater. Lett. 2005, 59, 2319[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
88De Miguel, S. R.; Bocanegra, S. A.; Vilella, I. M. J.; Guerrero-Ruíz, A.; Scelza, O. A. Catal. Lett. 2007, 119, 5[Crossref], Google Scholar
89Tasbihi, M.; Feyzi, F.; Amlashi, M. A.; Abdullah, A. Z.; Mohamed, A. R. Fuel Process. Technol. 2007, 88, 883[Crossref], Google Scholar
90Rennard, R. J.; Freel, J. J. Catal. 1986, 98, 235[Crossref], Google Scholar
91Aguilar-Rios, G.; Valenzuela, M. A.; Armendariz, H.; Salas, P.; Domínguez, J. M.; Acosta, D. R.; Schifter, I. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 90, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
92Bocanegra, S. A.; Guerrero-Ruíz, A.; de Miguel, S. R.; Scelza, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 277, 11[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
93Lai, Y.; He, S.; Li, X.; Sun, C.; Seshan, K. Appl. Catal., A 2014, 469, 74[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
94Mironenko, R. M.; Belskaya, O. B.; Talsi, V. P.; Gulyaeva, T. I.; Kazakov, M. O.; Nizovskii, A. I.; Kalinkin, A. V.; Bukhtiyarov, V. I.; Lavrenov, A. V.; Likholobov, V. A. Appl. Catal., A 2014, 469, 472[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
95Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., A 1995, 129, 101[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
96Cortright, R. D.; Levin, P. E.; Dumesic, J. A. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1998, 37, 1717[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
97Hill, J. M.; Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 168, 9[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
98Cortright, R. D.; Hill, J. M.; Dumesic, J. A. Catal. Today 2000, 55, 213[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
99Azzam, K. G.; Jacobs, G.; Shafer, W. D.; Davis, B. H. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 390, 264[Crossref], Google Scholar
100Biscardi, J. A.; Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 1999, 182, 117[Crossref], Google Scholar
101Azzam, K. G.; Jacobs, G.; Shafer, W. D.; Davis, B. H. J. Catal. 2010, 270, 242[Crossref], Google Scholar
102Waku, T.; Biscardi, J. A.; Iglesia, E. Chem. Commun. 2003, 9, 1764[Crossref], Google Scholar
103Li, X.; Iglesia, E. Chem. Commun. 2008, 8, 594[Crossref], Google Scholar
104Lieske, H.; Sárkány, A.; Völter, J. Appl. Catal. 1987, 30, 69[Crossref], Google Scholar
105Wu, J.; Peng, Z.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2014, 311, 161[Crossref], Google Scholar
106Virnovskaia, A.; Morandi, S.; Rytter, E.; Ghiotti, G.; Olsbye, U. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 14732[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
107Nagaraja, B. M.; Shin, C.-H.; Jung, K.-D. Appl. Catal., A 2013, 467, 211[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
108Boudart, M.; Aldag, A.; Benson, J. E.; Dougharty, N. A.; Girvin Harkins, C. J. Catal. 1966, 6, 92[Crossref], Google Scholar
109Cardona-Martinez, N.; Dumesic, J. A. Adv. Catal. 1992, 38, 149[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
110Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Anderson, J. A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Catal. Today 2007, 123, 235[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
111Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Coloma, F.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Anderson, J. A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Catal. Today 2008, 133–135, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
112Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Anderson, J. A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 917[Crossref], Google Scholar
113Soares, O. S. G. P.; Órfão, J. J. M.; Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Silvestre-Albero, J.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Pereira, M. F. R. Chem. Eng. J. 2010, 165, 78[Crossref], Google Scholar
114Yang, M.; Zhu, Y.; Zhou, X.; Sui, Z.; Chen, D. ACS Catal. 2012, 2, 1247[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
115Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Catal. 1995, 157, 576[Crossref], Google Scholar
116Natal-Santiago, M. A.; Podkolzin, S. G.; Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Catal. Lett. 1997, 45, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
117Shen, J.; Hill, J. M.; Watwe, R. M.; Spiewak, B. E.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 3923[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
118Nykänen, L.; Honkala, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 9578[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
119Gao, J.; Zhao, H.; Yang, X.; Koel, B. E.; Podkolzin, S. G. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 3641[Crossref], Google Scholar
120Siri, G. J.; Ramallo-López, J. M.; Casella, M. L.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Requejo, F. G.; Ferretti, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 278, 239[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
121Fearon, J.; Watson, G. W. J. Mater. Chem. 2006, 16, 1989[Crossref], Google Scholar
122Iglesias-Juez, A.; Beale, A. M.; Maaijen, K.; Weng, T. C.; Glatzel, P.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2010, 276, 268[Crossref], Google Scholar
123Deng, L.; Shishido, T.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. Catal. Today 2013, 232, 33[Crossref], Google Scholar
124Silvestre-Albero, J.; Sanchez-Castillo, M. A.; He, R.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Dumesic, J. A. Catal. Lett. 2001, 74, 17[Crossref], Google Scholar
125Silvestre-Albero, J.; Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 292, 244[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
126De Cola, P. L.; Gläser, R.; Weitkamp, J. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 306, 85[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
127Yu, C.; Xu, H.; Ge, Q.; Li, W. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2007, 266, 80[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
128Silvestre-Albero, J.; Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 351, 16[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
129Vu, B. K.; Song, M. B.; Ahn, I. Y.; Suh, Y.-W.; Suh, D. J.; Kim, W.-I.; Koh, H.-L.; Choi, Y. G.; Shin, E. W. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 400, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
130Jablonski, E. L.; Castro, A. A.; Scelza, O. A.; de Miguel, S. R. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 183, 189[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
131Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 192[Crossref], Google Scholar
132Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Galvita, V.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 200[Crossref], Google Scholar
133Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Vining, W. C.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2011, 282, 165[Crossref], Google Scholar
134Ballarini, A. D.; de Miguel, S. R.; Castro, A. A.; Scelza, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2013, 467, 235[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
135Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. J. Catal. 2007, 246, 158[Crossref], Google Scholar
136Barias, O. A.; Holmen, A.; Blekkan, E. A. J. Catal. 1996, 158, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
137Salmones, J.; Wang, J.-A.; Galicia, J. A.; Aguilar-Rios, G. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2002, 184, 203[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
138Zhou, Y.; Davis, M. D. U.S. Patent 5214227, 1993.Google Scholar
139Barri, S. A. I.; Tahir, R. U.S. Patent 5126502, 1992.Google Scholar
140Stagg, S. M.; Querini, C. A.; Alvarez, W. E.; Resasco, D. E. J. Catal. 1997, 168, 75[Crossref], Google Scholar
141Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Huang, L.; Xue, M.; Zhang, S. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2011, 50, 7896[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
142Duan, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Sheng, X.; Xue, M. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 120[Crossref], Google Scholar
143Frey, F. E.; Huppke, W. F. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1933, 25, 54[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
144Olsbye, U.; Virnovskaia, A.; Prytz, Ø.; Tinnemans, S. J.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Catal. Lett. 2005, 103, 143[Crossref], Google Scholar
145Weckhuysen, B. M.; de Ridder, L. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97, 4756[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
146Weckhuysen, B. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A.; Mabbs, F. E.; Collison, D. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 2431[Crossref], Google Scholar
147Cavani, F.; Koutyrev, M.; Trifiro, F.; Bartolini, A.; Ghisletti, D.; Iezzi, R.; Santucci, A.; Del Piero, G. J. Catal. 1996, 158, 236[Crossref], Google Scholar
148Weckhuysen, B. M.; Wachs, I. E. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 1969[Crossref], Google Scholar
149Santhosh Kumar, M.; Hammer, N.; Ronning, M.; Holmen, A.; Chen, D.; Walmsley, J. C.; Oye, G. J. Catal. 2009, 261, 116[Crossref], Google Scholar
150Michorczyk, P.; Ogonowski, J.; Zeńczak, K. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2011, 349, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
151Weckhuysen, B. M.; Wachs, I. E. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 14437[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
152Weckhuysen, B. M.; Bensalem, A.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1998, 94, 2011[Crossref], Google Scholar
153Weckhuysen, B. M.; Verberckmoes, A. A.; Debaere, J.; Ooms, K.; Langhans, I.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 151, 115[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
154Marcilly, C.; Delmon, B. J. Catal. 1972, 24, 336[Crossref], Google Scholar
155Ashmawy, F. M. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1980, 76, 2096[Crossref], Google Scholar
156Lugo, H. J.; Lunsford, J. H. J. Catal. 1985, 91, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
157Grünert, W.; Saffert, W.; Feldhaus, R.; Anders, K. J. Catal. 1986, 99, 149[Crossref], Google Scholar
158Selwood, P. W. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1970, 92, 39[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
159Cimino, A.; Cordischi, D.; De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Gazzoli, D.; Indovina, V.; Minelli, G.; Occhiuzzi, M.; Valigi, M. J. Catal. 1991, 127, 744[Crossref], Google Scholar
160Bruckner, A.; Radnik, J.; Hoang, D. L.; Lieske, H. Catal. Lett. 1999, 60, 183[Crossref], Google Scholar
161Mimura, N.; Okamoto, M.; Yamashita, H.; Oyama, S. T.; Murata, K. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 21764[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
162Pérez-Reina, F. J.; Rodríguez-Castellón, E.; Jiménez-López, A. Langmuir 1999, 15, 8421[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
163Hakuli, A.; Kytökivi, A.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 190, 219[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
164Kytökivi, A.; Jacobs, J. P.; Hakuli, A.; Meriläinen, J.; Brongersma, H. H. J. Catal. 1996, 162, 190[Crossref], Google Scholar
165Michorczyk, P.; Pietrzyk, P.; Ogonowski, J. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2012, 161, 56[Crossref], Google Scholar
166Hakuli, A.; Kytökivi, A.; Krause, A. O. I.; Suntola, T. J. Catal. 1996, 161, 393[Crossref], Google Scholar
167De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Fremoiotti, S.; Garrone, E.; Ghiotti, G.; Campa, M. C.; Indovina, V. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 36[Crossref], Google Scholar
168De Rossi, S.; Casaletto, M. P.; Ferraris, G.; Cimino, A.; Minelli, G. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 167, 257[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
169Gaspar, A. B.; Brito, J. L. F.; Dieguez, L. C. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2003, 203, 251[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
170Zhang, X.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. Catal. Lett. 2002, 83, 19[Crossref], Google Scholar
171Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Kanervo, J. M.; Krause, A. O. I. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 2001, 136, 153[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
172Puurunen, R. L.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2002, 210, 418[Crossref], Google Scholar
173Nijhuis, T. A.; Tinnemans, S. J.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 4361[Crossref], Google Scholar
174Takehira, K.; Ohishi, Y.; Shishido, T.; Kawabata, T.; Takaki, K.; Zhang, Q.; Wang, Y. J. Catal. 2004, 224, 404[Crossref], Google Scholar
175Shi, X.; Ji, S.; Wang, K. Catal. Lett. 2008, 125, 331[Crossref], Google Scholar
176Michorczyk, P.; Ogonowski, J.; Niemczyk, M. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 374, 142[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
177Ma, F.; Chen, S.; Wang, Y.; Chen, F.; Lu, W. Appl. Catal., A 2012, 427–428, 145[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
178Shishido, T.; Shimamura, K.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. Catal. Today 2012, 185, 151[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
179Yang, H.; Xu, L.; Ji, D.; Wang, Q.; Lin, L. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2002, 76, 151[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
180Tinnemans, S. J.; Kox, M. H. F.; Nijhuis, T. A.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 211[Crossref], Google Scholar
181De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Fremiotti, S.; Cimino, A.; Indovina, V. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 81, 113[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
182Puurunen, R. L.; Beheydt, B. G.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2001, 204, 253[Crossref], Google Scholar
183Weckhuysen, B. M.; De Ridder, L. M.; Grobet, P. J.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 320[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
184Vuurman, M. A.; Hardcastle, F. D.; Wachs, I. E. J. Mol. Catal. 1993, 84, 193[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
185Simon, S.; van der Pol, A.; Reijerse, E. J.; Kentgens, A. P. M. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1995, 91, 1519[Crossref], Google Scholar
186El-Shobaky, H. G.; Ghozza, A. M.; El-Shobaky, G. A.; Mohamed, G. M. Colloids Surf., A 1999, 152, 315[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
187Wachowski, L.; Kirszensztejn, P.; Lopatka, R.; Czajka, B. Mater. Chem. Phys. 1994, 37, 29[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
188Rossignol, S.; Kappenstein, C. J. Inorg. Mater. 2001, 3, 52[Crossref], Google Scholar
189Zhao, H.; Song, H.; Xu, L.; Chou, L. Appl. Catal., A 2013, 456, 188[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
190De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Fremiotti, S.; Indovina, V.; Cimino, A. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 106, 125[Crossref], Google Scholar
191Fujdala, K.; Tilly, T. D. J. Catal. 2003, 218, 123[Crossref], Google Scholar
192Korhonen, S. T.; Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Banares, M. A.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., A 2007, 333, 30[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
193Martyanov, I.; Sayari, A. Catal. Lett. 2008, 126, 164[Crossref], Google Scholar
194Bibby, D. M.; Milestone, N. B.; Aldridge, L. Nature 1979, 280, 664[Crossref], Google Scholar
195Tsyganok, A.; Green, R. G.; Giorgi, J. B.; Sayari, A. Catal. Commun. 2007, 8, 2186[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
196Alcántara-Rodríguez, M.; Rodríguez-Castellón, E.; Jiménez-López, A. Langmuir 1999, 15, 1115[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
197Shee, D.; Sayari, A. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 389, 155[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
198Sattler, J. J. H. B.; González-Jiménez, I. D.; Mens, A. M.; Arias, M.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Chem. Commun. 2013, 49, 1518[Crossref], Google Scholar
199Chaar, M. A.; Patel, D.; Kung, M. C.; Kung, H. H. J. Catal. 1987, 105, 483[Crossref], Google Scholar
200Wachs, I. E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 67[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
201Weckhuysen, B. M.; Keller, D. E. Catal. Today 2003, 78, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
202Volpe, M.; Tonetto, G.; de Lasa, H. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 272, 69[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
203Wu, Z.; Kim, H.-S.; Stair, P. C.; Rugmini, S.; Jackson, S. D. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2793[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
204Wu, Z.; Stair, P. J. Catal. 2006, 237, 220[Crossref], Google Scholar
205Jackson, S. D.; Rugmini, S. J. Catal. 2007, 251, 59[Crossref], Google Scholar
206McGregor, J.; Huang, Z.; Shiko, G.; Gladden, L. F.; Stein, R. S.; Duer, M. J.; Wu, Z.; Stair, P. C.; Rugmini, S.; Jackson, S. D. Catal. Today 2009, 142, 143[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
207Harlin, M. E.; Niemi, V. M.; Krause, A. O. I. J. Catal. 2000, 195, 67[Crossref], Google Scholar
208Harlin, M. E.; Niemi, V. M.; Krause, A. O. I.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2001, 203, 242[Crossref], Google Scholar
209Takahara, I.; Saito, M.; Inaba, M.; Murata, K. Catal. Lett. 2005, 102, 201[Crossref], Google Scholar
210Steinfeldt, N.; Müller, D.; Berndt, H. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 272, 201[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
211Ogonowski, J.; Skrzyńska, E. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2006, 88, 293[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
212Ogonowski, J.; Skrzyńska, E. Catal. Lett. 2006, 111, 79[Crossref], Google Scholar
213Ogonowski, J.; Skrzyńska, E. Catal. Lett. 2008, 121, 234[Crossref], Google Scholar
214Sokolov, S.; Stoyanova, M.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Kondratenko, E. V. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2014, 4, 1323[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
215McGregor, J.; Huang, Z.; Parrott, E. P. J.; Zeitler, J. A.; Nguyen, K. L.; Rawson, J. M.; Carley, A.; Hansen, T. W.; Tessonnier, J.-P.; Su, D. S.; Teschner, D.; Vass, E. M.; Knop-Gericke, A.; Schlögl, R.; Gladden, L. F. J. Catal. 2010, 269, 329[Crossref], Google Scholar
216Russell, A. S.; Stokes, J. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1946, 38, 1071[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
217Xie, S.; Chen, K.; Bell, A. T.; Iglesia, E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 10059[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
218Harlin, M. E.; Backman, L. B.; Krause, A. O. I.; Jylhä, O. J. T. J. Catal. 1999, 183, 300[Crossref], Google Scholar
219López Cordero, R.; Gil Llambias, F. J.; López Agudo, A. Appl. Catal. 1991, 74, 125[Crossref], Google Scholar
220Mitchell, P. C. H.; Wass, S. A. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 225, 153[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
221Ledoux, M. J.; Meunier, F.; Heinrich, B.; Pham-huu, C.; Harlin, M. E.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 181, 157[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
222Frank, B.; Cotter, T. P.; Schuster, M. E.; Schlögl, R.; Trunschke, A. Chem.—Eur. J. 2013, 19, 16938[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
223Lee, J. S.; Oyama, S. T.; Boudart, M. J. Catal. 1987, 106, 125[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
224Harlin, M. E.; Krause, A. O. I.; Heinrich, B.; Pham-huu, C.; Ledoux, M. J. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 185, 311[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
225Gnep, N. S.; Doyemet, J. Y.; Seco, A. M.; Ribeiro, F. R.; Guisnet, M. Appl. Catal. 1988, 43, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
226Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. J. Mol. Catal. 1989, 50, L7[Crossref], Google Scholar
227Price, G. L.; Kanazirev, V. J. Catal. 1990, 126, 267[Crossref], Google Scholar
228Meitzner, G. D.; Iglesia, E.; Baumgartner, J. E.; Huang, E. S. J. Catal. 1993, 140, 209[Crossref], Google Scholar
229Zheng, B.; Hua, W.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. J. Catal. 2005, 232, 143[Crossref], Google Scholar
230Nesterenko, N. S.; Ponomoreva, O. A.; Yuschenko, V. V.; Ivanova, I. I.; Testa, F.; Di Renzo, F.; Fajula, F. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 254, 261[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
231Liu, Y.; Li, Z. H.; Lu, J.; Fan, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 20382[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
232Chen, M.; Xu, J.; Su, F.; Liu, Y.; Cao, Y.; He, H.; Fan, K. J. Catal. 2008, 256, 293[Crossref], Google Scholar
233Xu, B.; Zheng, B.; Hua, W.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. J. Catal. 2006, 239, 470[Crossref], Google Scholar
234Xu, B.; Li, T.; Zheng, B.; Hua, W.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. Catal. Lett. 2007, 119, 283[Crossref], Google Scholar
235Michorczyk, P.; Ogonowski, J. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 251, 425[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
236Pidko, E. A.; Hensen, E. J. M.; van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 13068[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
237Takahara, I.; Saito, M.; Inaba, M.; Murata, K. Catal. Lett. 2004, 96, 29[Crossref], Google Scholar
238Rodríguez, L.; Romero, D.; Rodríguez, D.; Sánchez, J.; Domínguez, F.; Arteaga, G. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 373, 66[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
239Chao, K. J.; Wei, A. C.; Wu, H. C.; Lee, J. F. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2000, 35–36, 413[Crossref], Google Scholar
240Butt, D. P.; Park, Y.; Taylor, T. N. J. Nucl. Mater. 1999, 264, 71[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
241Nakagawa, K.; Okamura, M.; Ikenaga, N.; Kobayashi, T. Chem. Commun. 1998, 3, 1025[Crossref], Google Scholar
242Nakagawa, K.; Kajita, C.; Okumura, K.; Ikenaga, N.; Nishitani-Gamo, M.; Ando, T.; Kobayashi, T.; Suzuki, T. J. Catal. 2001, 203, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
243Li, H.; Yue, Y.; Miao, C.; Xie, Z.; Hua, W.; Gao, Z. Catal. Commun. 2007, 8, 1317[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
244Shen, Z.; Liu, J.; Xu, H.; Yue, Y.; Hua, W.; Shen, W. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 356, 148[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
245Michorczyk, P.; Kuśtrowski, P.; Kolak, A.; Zimowska, M. Catal. Commun. 2013, 35, 95[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
246Hensen, E. J. M.; Pidko, E. A.; Rane, N.; van Santen, R. A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 38, 7273[Crossref], Google Scholar
247Iezzi, R.; Bartolini, A.; Buonomo, F. U.S. Patent 0198428, 2002.Google Scholar
248Sattler, J. J. H. B.; González-Jiménez, I. D.; Luo, L.; Stears, B. A.; Malek, A.; Barton, D. G.; Kilos, B. A.; Kaminsky, M. P.; Verhoeven, M. W. G. M.; Koers, E. J.; Baldus, M.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 9251[Crossref], Google Scholar
249Saito, M.; Watanabe, S.; Takahara, I.; Inaba, M.; Murata, K. Catal. Lett. 2003, 89, 213[Crossref], Google Scholar
250Shimada, H.; Akazawa, T.; Ikenaga, N.; Suzuki, T. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 168, 243[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
251Wang, R.; Sun, X.; Zhang, B.; Sun, X.; Su, D. Chem.—Eur. J. 2014, 20, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
252Zhang, J.; Liu, X.; Blume, R.; Zhang, A.; Schlögl, R.; Su, D. S. Science 2008, 322, 73[Crossref], Google Scholar
253Chen, C.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, B.; Yu, C.; Peng, F.; Su, D. Chem. Commun. 2013, 49, 8151[Crossref], Google Scholar
254Liu, L.; Deng, Q.-F.; Agula, B.; Zhao, X.; Ren, T.-Z.; Yuan, Z.-Y. Chem. Commun. 2011, 47, 8334[Crossref], Google Scholar
255Levi, R. B.; Boudart, M. Science 1973, 181, 547[Crossref], Google Scholar
256Neylon, M. K.; Choi, S.; Kwon, H.; Curry, K. E.; Thompson, L. T. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 183, 253[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
257Wang, G.; Li, C.; Shan, H. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 1139[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
258Perdigon-Melon, J.; Gervasini, A.; Auroux, A. J. Catal. 2005, 234, 421[Crossref], Google Scholar
259Halász, J.; Kónya, Z.; Fudala, Á.; Béres, A.; Kiricsi, I. Catal. Today 1996, 5861, 293[Crossref], Google Scholar
260Chen, M.; Xu, J.; Liu, Y.-M.; Cao, Y.; He, H.-Y.; Zhuang, J.-H. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 377, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
261Chen, M.; Wu, J.-L.; Liu, Y.-M.; Cao, Y.; Guo, L.; He, H.-Y.; Fan, K.-N. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 407, 20[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
262Chen, M.; Xu, J.; Cao, Y.; He, H.-Y.; Fan, K.-N.; Zhuang, J.-H. J. Catal. 2010, 272, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
263Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Chen, D. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 398, 18[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
264Wenner, R. R.; Dybal, E. C. Catal. Eng. Prog. 1948, 45, 275Google Scholar
265Stobbe, D. E.; van Buren, F. R.; Hoogenraad, M. S.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1991, 87, 1639[Crossref], Google Scholar
266Stobbe, D. E.; van Buren, F. R.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W. J. Catal. 1992, 562, 548[Crossref], Google Scholar
267Boot, L. A.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W.; van Buren, F. R. J. Catal. 1996, 163, 186[Crossref], Google Scholar
268Boot, L. A.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W.; van Buren, F. R. J. Catal. 1996, 163, 195[Crossref], Google Scholar
269Sun, Y.; Tao, L.; You, T.; Li, C.; Shan, H. Chem. Eng. J. 2014, 244, 145[Crossref], Google Scholar
270Yun, J. H.; Lobo, R. F. J. Catal. 2014, 312, 263[Crossref], Google Scholar
271Guisnet, M.; Gnep, N. S.; Alario, F. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 89, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
272Almutairi, S. M. T.; Mezari, B.; Magusin, P. C. M. M.; Pidko, E. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. ACS Catal. 2012, 2, 71[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
273Biscardi, A.; Iglesia, E. Catal. Today. 1996, 31, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
274Mole, T.; Anderson, J. R.; Creer, G. Appl. Catal. 1985, 17, 141[Crossref], Google Scholar
275Wang, L.; Tao, L.; Xie, M.; Xu, G.; Huang, J.; Xu, Y. Catal. Lett. 1993, 21, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
276Biscardi, J. A.; Meitzner, G. D.; Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 1998, 202, 192[Crossref], Google Scholar
277Aleksandrov, H. A.; Vayssilov, G. N. Catal. Today 2010, 152, 78[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
278Kazansky, V. B.; Subbotina, I. R.; Rane, N.; van Santen, R. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 3088[Crossref], Google Scholar
279Kazansky, V. B.; Pidko, E. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2103[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
280Pidko, E. A.; Van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 2643[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
281Eastman, A. D. U.S. Patent 4327238, 1980.Google Scholar
282Eastman, A. D. U.S. Patent 4371730, 1983.Google Scholar
283Chen, Z. X.; Derking, A.; Koot, W.; van Dijk, M. P. J. Catal. 1996, 161, 730[Crossref], Google Scholar
284Schweitzer, N. M.; Hu, B.; Das, U.; Kim, H.; Curtiss, L. A.; Stair, P. C.; Miller, T.; Hock, A. S. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 1091[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
285Horiuti, I.; Polanyi, M. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1934, 30, 1164[Crossref], Google Scholar
286Biloen, P.; Dautzenberg, F. M.; Sachtler, W. M. H. J. Catal. 1977, 50, 77[Crossref], Google Scholar
287Chen, K.; Iglesia, E.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2000, 192, 197[Crossref], Google Scholar
288Sokolov, S.; Stoyanova, M.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Kondratenko, E. V. J. Catal. 2012, 293, 67[Crossref], Google Scholar
289Hauser, A. W.; Gomes, J.; Bajdich, M.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 20727[Crossref], Google Scholar
290Galvita, V.; Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2010, 271, 209[Crossref], Google Scholar
291Virnovskaia, A.; Rytter, E.; Olsbye, U. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2008, 47, 7167[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
292Zaera, F.; Chrysostomou, D. Surf. Sci. 2000, 457, 71[Crossref], Google Scholar
293Zaera, F.; Chrysostomou, D. Surf. Sci. 2000, 457, 89[Crossref], Google Scholar
294Chrysostomou, D.; Zaera, F. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 1003[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
295Valcarcel, A.; Ricart, J.; Clotet, A.; Illas, F.; Markovits, A.; Minot, C. J. Catal. 2006, 241, 115[Crossref], Google Scholar
296Watwe, R. M.; Spiewak, B. E.; Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Catal. 1998, 180, 184[Crossref], Google Scholar
297Chrysostomou, D.; Chou, A.; Zaera, F. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 5968[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
298Ohtani, T.; Kubota, J.; Kondo, J. N.; Hirose, C.; Domen, K. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 4562[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
299De La Cruz, C.; Sheppard, N. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1997, 93, 3569[Crossref], Google Scholar
300Essen, J. M.; Haubrich, J.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. Surf. Sci. 2007, 601, 3472[Crossref], Google Scholar
301Cremer, P. S.; Su, X.; Shen, Y. R.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 2942[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
302Cremer, P. S.; Stanners, C.; Niemantsverdriet, J. W.; Shen, Y. R.; Somorjai, G. A. Surf. Sci. 1995, 328, 111[Crossref], Google Scholar
303Zaera, F.; Janssens, T. V. W.; Ofner, H. Surf. Sci. 1996, 368, 371[Crossref], Google Scholar
304Nykanen, L.; Honkala, K. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 3026[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
305Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Harlin, M. E.; Krause, A. O. I. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2002, 41, 5619[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
306Lillehaug, S.; Børve, K. J.; Sierka, M.; Sauer, J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2004, 17, 990[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
307Lillehaug, S.; Jensen, V. R.; Børve, K. J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2006, 19, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
308Carra, S.; Forni, L.; Vintani, C. J. Catal. 1967, 9, 154[Crossref], Google Scholar
309Kao, J. Y.; Piet-Lahanier, H.; Walter, E.; Happel, J. J. Catal. 1992, 133, 383[Crossref], Google Scholar
310Suzuki, I.; Kaneko, Y. J. Catal. 1977, 47, 239[Crossref], Google Scholar
311Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Banares, M. A.; Krause, A. O. I. J. Catal. 2005, 230, 507[Crossref], Google Scholar
312Conley, M. P.; Delley, M. F.; Siddiqi, G.; Lapadula, G.; Norsic, S.; Monteil, V.; Safonova, O. V.; Copéret, C. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 1872[Crossref], Google Scholar
313Delley, M. F.; Conley, M. P.; Copéret, C. Catal. Lett. 2014, 144, 805[Crossref], Google Scholar
314Lillehaug, S.; Børve, K. J.; Sierka, M.; Sauer, J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2004, 17, 990[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
315Lillehaug, S.; Jensen, V. R.; Børve, K. J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2006, 19, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
316Kazansky, V. B.; Subbotina, I. R.; Pronin, A. A.; Schlögl, R.; Jentoft, F. C. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 7975[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
317Noda, H.; Tone, S.; Otake, T. J. Chem. Eng. Jpn. 1973, 7, 1974Google Scholar
318Toei, R.; Nakanishi, K.; Yamada, K.; Okazaki, M. J. Chem. Eng. Jpn. 1975, 8, 131[Crossref], Google Scholar
319Swift, H. E.; Beuther, H.; Rennard, R. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 1976, 15, 131[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
320Menon, P. G. J. Mol. Catal. 1990, 59, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
321Chen, Y.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 4973[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
322Wang, B.; Ma, X.; Caffio, M.; Schaub, R.; Li, W.-X. Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 424[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
323Otero, G.; González, C.; Pinardi, A. L.; Merino, P.; Gardonio, S.; Lizzit, S.; Blanco-Rey, M.; Van de Ruit, K.; Flipse, C. F. J.; Méndez, J.; de Andrés, P. L.; Martín-Gago, J. A. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2010, 105, 216102[Crossref], Google Scholar
324Larsson, M.; Hulten, M.; Blekkan, E. A.; Andersson, B. J. Catal. 1996, 164, 44[Crossref], Google Scholar
325Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Zhu, Y.; Zhou, J.; Chen, D. Top. Catal. 2011, 54, 888[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
326Land, T. A.; Michely, T.; Behm, R. J.; Hemminger, J. C. Surf. Sci. 1992, 264, 261[Crossref], Google Scholar
327Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Chen, D. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 398, 18[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
328Sattler, J. J. H. B.; Beale, A. M.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 12085[Crossref], Google Scholar
329Malleswara Rao, T. V.; Deo, G.; Jehng, J.-M.; Wachs, I. E. Langmuir 2004, 20, 7159[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
330Ruettinger, W.; Benderly, A.; Han, S.; Shen, X.; Ding, Y.; Suib, S. L. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 15[Crossref], Google Scholar
331Zhu, Q.; Takiguchi, M.; Setoyama, T.; Yokoi, T.; Kondo, J. N.; Tatsumi, T. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 670[Crossref], Google Scholar
332Grasselli, G. R.; Stern, D. L.; Tsikoyiannis, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 189, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
333Van der Zande, L. M.; de Graaf, E. A.; Rothenberg, G. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2002, 344, 884[Crossref], Google Scholar
334Låte, L.; Thelin, W.; Blekkan, E. A. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 262, 63[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
335Waku, T.; Biscardi, J. A.; Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 2004, 222, 481[Crossref], Google Scholar
336Låte, L.; Rundereim, J. I.; Blekkan, E. A. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 262, 53[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
337Kikuchi, E.; Uemiya, S.; Sato, N.; Inoue, H.; Ando, H.; Matsuda, T. Chem. Lett. 1989, 18, 489[Crossref], Google Scholar
338Matsuda, T.; Koike, I.; Kubo, N.; Kikuchi, E. J. Membr. Sci. 1993, 77, 283[Crossref], Google Scholar
339Collins, J. P.; Schwartz, R. W.; Sehgal, R.; Ward, T. L.; Brinker, C. J.; Hagen, G. P.; Udovich, C. A. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1996, 35, 4398[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
340Kiwi-Minsker, L.; Wolfrath, O.; Renken, A. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2002, 57, 4947[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
341Sznejer, G.; Sheintuch, M. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2004, 59, 2013[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
342Bobrov, V. S.; Digurov, N. G.; Skudin, V. V. J. Membr. Sci. 2005, 253, 233[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
343Liang, W.; Hughes, R. Catal. Today 2005, 104, 238[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
344Medrano, J. A.; Julia, I.; Garc, F. R.; Li, K.; Herguido, J.; Mene, M. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2013, 52, 3723[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
345Chua, Y. T.; Stair, P. C. J. Catal. 2003, 213, 39[Crossref], Google Scholar
346Bennici, S. M.; Vogelaar, B. M.; Nijhuis, T. A.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 5412[Crossref], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
41
Mentioning
1533
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 1316 publications.
Alberto Ricchebuono, Eleonora Vottero, Andrea Piovano, Elena Groppo, Pascal Raybaud, Céline Chizallet. Assessing Low-Cost Computational Methods against Structural Properties and Size Effects of Pt nanoparticles. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (37) , 18454-18465. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c02799
Hossein Mohammadzadeh, Ahmad Shariati, Mohammadreza Khosravi-Nikou. Experimental Investigation of the Performance and Catalytic Properties of xFe2O3/ZrO2 Mesoporous Catalysts in Propane Dehydrogenation in the Presence of CO2. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (37) , 14947-14962. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c01441
Satoshi Misaki, Hiroko Ariga-Miwa, Takashi U. Ito, Takefumi Yoshida, Shingo Hasegawa, Yukina Nakamura, Shunta Tokutake, Moe Takabatake, Koichiro Shimomura, Wang-Jae Chun, Yuichi Manaka, Ken Motokura. Pd Nanoparticles on the Outer Surface of Microporous Aluminosilicates for the Direct Alkylation of Benzenes using Alkanes. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (18) , 12281-12287. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02309
Zixuan Chen, Nora K. Zimmerli, Muhammad Zubair, Alexander V. Yakimov, Snædís Björgvinsdóttir, Nicholas Alaniva, Elena Willinger, Alexander B. Barnes, Nicholas M. Bedford, Christophe Copéret, Pierre Florian, Paula M. Abdala, Alexey Fedorov, Christoph R. Müller. Nature of GaOx Shells Grown on Silica by Atomic Layer Deposition. Chemistry of Materials 2023, Article ASAP.
Shuo Peng, Shuang Liu, Qing Chen, Shaobo Han, Gao Li, Wenjie Shen. Silica-Confined Pt3Sn Clusters for Propane Dehydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (33) , 12915-12924. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c01334
Charles H. Fricke, Olajide H. Bamidele, Mubarak Bello, Jawad Chowdhury, Gabriel Terejanu, Andreas Heyden. Modeling the Effect of Surface Platinum–Tin Alloys on Propane Dehydrogenation on Platinum–Tin Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (16) , 10627-10640. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00939
Yingbin Zheng, Junjie Li, Xinbao Zhang, Jie An, Wenjie Xin, Xiangxue Zhu, Xiujie Li. Effect of CO2 Co-Feeding on the Stabilization of Atomically Dispersed Iron Species over MgAl2O4 During Ethane Dehydrogenation Reactions. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (16) , 11153-11163. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02029
Zisheng Zhang, Ive Hermans, Anastassia N. Alexandrova. Off-Stoichiometric Restructuring and Sliding Dynamics of Hexagonal Boron Nitride Edges in Conditions of Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (31) , 17265-17273. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c04613
Lukas Rochlitz, Jörg W. A. Fischer, Quentin Pessemesse, Adam H. Clark, Anton Ashuiev, Daniel Klose, Pierre-Adrien Payard, Gunnar Jeschke, Christophe Copéret. Ti-Doping in Silica-Supported PtZn Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts: From Improved Stability to the Nature of the Pt–Ti Interaction. JACS Au 2023, 3 (7) , 1939-1951. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.3c00197
Xiaofeng Gao, Mingjie Liu, Yongkang Huang, Wenhao Xu, Xian Zhou, Siyu Yao. Dimensional Understanding of Boron-Based Catalysts for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation: Structure and Mechanism. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (14) , 9667-9687. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00728
Qiang Zhou, Ziyi Liu, Lihan Zhu, Wenduo Lu, Lei He, Dongqi Wang. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane on Boron Phosphate: A Computational Mechanistic Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (27) , 12942-12952. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c00838
Fan Xu, Haolin Li, Bingyu Tian, Kun Cui, Rui Dong, Mingjin Fan, Meirong Cai, Feng Zhou, Weimin Liu. Achieving Greener, Super-Robust Performance Water-Based Lubrication: Obtained by a Multifunctional Ionic Liquid Aqueous System and Formation of Unique Interfacial Interactions. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2023, 11 (23) , 8651-8666. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.3c01843
Swarup K. Maiti, Kirk Snavely, Anand Ramanathan, Jihad Dakka, Partha Nandi, David B. Spry, Bala Subramaniam. Direct Tertiary Butyl Alcohol Formation via Catalytic Liquid Phase Isobutane Oxidation with Molecular Oxygen. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, Article ASAP.
Bernard Whajah, Joseph N. Heil, Cameron L. Roman, James A. Dorman, Kerry M. Dooley. Zeolite Supported Pt for Depolymerization of Polyethylene by Induction Heating. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (22) , 8635-8643. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c04568
Yuchen Zhang, Yichen Yu, Yi Dai, Yaoyuan Zhang, Qi Liu, Dong Xiong, Lixia Bao, Qin Wu, Daxin Shi, Kangcheng Chen, Yuming Li, Guiyuan Jiang, Evgenii V. Kondratenko, Hansheng Li. Regulating the C–H Bond Activation Pathway over ZrO2 via Doping Engineering for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (10) , 6893-6904. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c01002
Qiang Zhang, Shiqin Gao, Jihong Yu. Metal Sites in Zeolites: Synthesis, Characterization, and Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (9) , 6039-6106. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00315
Yuki Nakaya, Shinya Furukawa. Catalysis of Alloys: Classification, Principles, and Design for a Variety of Materials and Reactions. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (9) , 5859-5947. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00356
Shaojia Song, Yuanqing Sun, Kun Yang, Yumeng Fo, Xiangyang Ji, Hui Su, Zhenxing Li, Chunming Xu, Guoyong Huang, Jian Liu, Weiyu Song. Recent Progress in Metal-Molecular Sieve Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (9) , 6044-6067. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00816
Yiyi Xu, Sai Chen, Xin Chang, Xianhui Wang, Guodong Sun, Zhenpu Lu, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Chunlei Pei, Jinlong Gong. Ultrathin TiOx Nanosheets Rich in Tetracoordinated Ti Sites for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (9) , 6104-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00818
Lichen Liu, Avelino Corma. Bimetallic Sites for Catalysis: From Binuclear Metal Sites to Bimetallic Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (8) , 4855-4933. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00733
Chunguang Dong, Zhuangzhuang Lai, Haifeng Wang. Comprehensive Mechanism and Microkinetic Model-Driven Rational Screening of 3N-Modulated Single-Atom Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (8) , 5529-5537. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00889
Zihao Zhang, Jinshu Tian, Xiangkun Wu, Ivan Surin, Javier Pérez-Ramírez, Patrick Hemberger, Andras Bodi. Unraveling Radical and Oxygenate Routes in the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over Boron Nitride. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (14) , 7910-7917. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c12970
Yong Yuan, Raul F. Lobo. Zinc Speciation and Propane Dehydrogenation in Zn/H-ZSM-5 Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4971-4984. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05898
Tangkang Liu, Di Xu, Mengyang Song, Xinlin Hong, Guoliang Liu. K–ZrO2 Interfaces Boost CO2 Hydrogenation to Higher Alcohols. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4667-4674. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00074
Ming-Lei Sun, Zhong-Pan Hu, Hao-Yu Wang, Yu-Jun Suo, Zhong-Yong Yuan. Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4719-4741. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00103
Lihan Zhu, Ziyi Liu, Qiang Zhou, Wen-Duo Lu, Dongqi Wang. Propane Oxidative Dehydrogenation on Nanosized Boron Carbide: Effect of Boron Content and Its Oxidation Implicated by DFT Calculations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (13) , 6280-6293. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c08586
Xiao Jiang, Bar Mosevitzky Lis, Yiqing Wu, Israel E. Wachs, Zili Wu. Effect of the Molecular Structure of Surface Vanadia on Activity and Regenerability of VOx/In2O3 Catalysts for CO2-Assisted Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (13) , 6311-6320. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c00183
Xintong Lv, Min Yang, Shaojia Song, Mingji Xia, Jun Li, Yuechang Wei, Chunming Xu, Weiyu Song, Jian Liu. Boosting Propane Dehydrogenation by the Regioselective Distribution of Subnanometric CoO Clusters in MFI Zeolite Nanosheets. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (11) , 14250-14260. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c21076
Yaoyuan Zhang, Qin Wu, Kun Zhang, Daxin Shi, Shujun Jia, Kangcheng Chen, Hansheng Li. Synergetic Regulation of the Microstructure and Acidity of HZSM-5/MCM-41 for Efficient Catalytic Cracking of n-Decane. Langmuir 2023, 39 (9) , 3494-3501. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.3c00028
Yilang Liu, Xue Zong, Abhirup Patra, Stavros Caratzoulas, Dionisios G. Vlachos. Propane Dehydrogenation on PtxSny (x, y ≤ 4) Clusters on Al2O3(110). ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (5) , 2802-2812. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05671
Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Ethane Dehydrogenation over the Core–Shell Pt-Based Alloy Catalysts: Driven by Engineering the Shell Composition and Thickness. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (8) , 10679-10695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c21249
Hongda Zhu, Timothy A. Jackson, Bala Subramaniam. Facile Ozonation of Light Alkanes to Oxygenates with High Atom Economy in Tunable Condensed Phase at Ambient Temperature. JACS Au 2023, 3 (2) , 498-507. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00631
Peng Chen, Ying Liu, Yarong Xu, Chenxi Guo, P. Hu. Quantitative Evidence to Challenge the Traditional Model in Heterogeneous Catalysis: Kinetic Modeling for Ethane Dehydrogenation over Fe/SAPO-34. JACS Au 2023, 3 (1) , 165-175. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00576
Khaled Baamran, Ali A. Rownaghi, Fateme Rezaei. Direct Synthesis of Ethylene and Hydrogen from CO2 and Ethane over a Bifunctional Structured CaO/Cr2O3-V2O5/ZSM-5 Adsorbent/Catalyst Monolith. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2023, 11 (3) , 1006-1018. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c05627
Lulu Ping, Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Unraveling the Surface State Evolution of IrO2 in Ethane Chemical Looping Oxidative Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (2) , 1381-1399. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05770
Yuchen Liu, Ziyi Liu, Dongqi Wang, An-Hui Lu. Suppressing Deep Oxidation by Detached Nano-sized Boron Oxide in Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane Revealed by the Density Functional Theory Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (50) , 21263-21271. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c06910
Toshiki Nishitoba, Kazuhiro Matsumoto, Yusuke Ishizaka, Natsumi Arai, Katsuhiko Takeuchi, Norihisa Fukaya, Tadahiro Fujitani, Akira Endo, Hiroyuki Yasuda, Kazuhiko Sato, Jun-Chul Choi. Controlled Growth of Platinum Nanoparticles on Amorphous Silica from Grafted Pt–Disilicate Complexes. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (50) , 47120-47128. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c06262
Rong Qian, Shi-zhong Luo, Fangli Jing, Wenhao Fang. Carbon Nanotubes Confined PtIn Alloy as a Highly Stable Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (47) , 17264-17274. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02873
Fangliang Li, Binli Wang, Xiao Chen, Yuemiao Lai, Tao Wang, Hongjun Fan, Xueming Yang, Qing Guo. Photocatalytic Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane for Selective Propene Production with TiO2. JACS Au 2022, 2 (11) , 2607-2616. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00512
Qiu-Cui Zheng, Si-Yuan Peng, Si-Qi Cong, Xin-Yu Ning, Yan Guo, Meng-Jiao Li, Wen-Shu Wang, Xiao-Jie Cui, Fei-Xian Luo. Unexpected Cascade Dehydrogenation Triggered by Pd/Cu-Catalyzed C(sp3)–H Arylation/Intramolecular C–N Coupling of Amides: Facile Access to 1,2-Dihydroquinolines. Organic Letters 2022, 24 (45) , 8283-8288. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.2c03203
Xue Cai, Zitong Zhang, Lili Cai, Xiaoyan Tian, Wenling Chu, Weishen Yang. Effect of Calcination Atmosphere on the Structure and Catalytic Behavior of Cr2O3/Al2O3 Catalysts for Dehydrogenation of Propane. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (44) , 16479-16488. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c03031
Guido Zichittella, Amani M. Ebrahim, Jie Zhu, Anna E. Brenner, Griffin Drake, Gregg T. Beckham, Simon R. Bare, Julie E. Rorrer, Yuriy Román-Leshkov. Hydrogenolysis of Polyethylene and Polypropylene into Propane over Cobalt-Based Catalysts. JACS Au 2022, 2 (10) , 2259-2268. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00402
Xiaowen Chen, Mi Peng, Dequan Xiao, Hongyang Liu, Ding Ma. Fully Exposed Metal Clusters: Fabrication and Application in Alkane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12720-12743. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04008
Rui Ma, Junxian Gao, Jiajing Kou, David P. Dean, Christian J. Breckner, Kaijun Liang, Bo Zhou, Jeffrey T. Miller, Guojun Zou. Insights into the Nature of Selective Nickel Sites on Ni/Al2O3 Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12607-12616. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03240
Shuairen Qian, Yuxin Chen, Yujie Wang, Binhang Yan, Yi Cheng. Identification of the Intrinsic Active Site in Phase-Pure M1 Catalysts for Oxidation Dehydrogenation of Ethane by Density Functional Theory Calculations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (41) , 17536-17543. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c04675
Jessica Rodriguez, Maxime Boudjelel, Leonard J. Mueller, Richard R. Schrock, Matthew P. Conley. Ring Contraction of a Tungstacyclopentane Supported on Silica: Direct Conversion of Ethylene to Propylene. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (41) , 18761-18765. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c07934
Jessy Abou Nakad, Remy Rajapaksha, Kai C. Szeto, Aimery De Mallmann, Mostafa Taoufik. Preparation of Tripodal Vanadium Oxo-Organometallic Species Supported on Silica, [(≡SiO)3V(═O)], for Selective Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. Organometallics 2022, 41 (19) , 2784-2797. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.2c00377
Kewei Yu, Sanjana Srinivas, Cong Wang, Weiqi Chen, Lu Ma, Steven N. Ehrlich, Nebojsa Marinkovic, Pawan Kumar, Eric A. Stach, Stavros Caratzoulas, Weiqing Zheng, Dionisios G. Vlachos. High-Temperature Pretreatment Effect on Co/SiO2 Active Sites and Ethane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (19) , 11749-11760. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03180
Cristian A. Morales-Rivera, Glenn Cormack, James Burrington, Nicolas Proust, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Understanding and Optimizing the Behavior of Al- and Ru-Based Catalysts for the Synthesis of Polyisobutenyl Succinic Anhydrides. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (39) , 14462-14471. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02003
Jessica A. Muhlenkamp, Jason C. Hicks. Consequences of Propane Dehydrogenation and Oxidative Regeneration on Ni-Phosphide Phase Stability. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (39) , 14472-14481. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02514
Canan Karakaya, Michelle Kidder, Colin Wolden, Robert J. Kee, Olaf Deutschmann. Mechanistic Interpretations and Insights for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane via CO2 over Cr2O3/Al2O3 Catalysts. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (39) , 14482-14493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02298
Hongyu Chen, Pan Gao, Zhengmao Liu, Lixin Liang, Qiao Han, Zhili Wang, Kuizhi Chen, Zhenchao Zhao, Meiling Guo, Xuebin Liu, Xiuwen Han, Xinhe Bao, Guangjin Hou. Direct Detection of Reactive Gallium-Hydride Species on the Ga2O3 Surface via Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (38) , 17365-17375. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01005
Liang Qi, Yanfei Zhang, Melike Babucci, Cailing Chen, Peng Lu, Jingwei Li, Chaochao Dun, Adam S. Hoffman, Jeffrey J. Urban, Michael Tsapatsis, Simon R. Bare, Yu Han, Bruce C. Gates, Alexis T. Bell. Dehydrogenation of Propane and n-Butane Catalyzed by Isolated PtZn4 Sites Supported on Self-Pillared Zeolite Pentasil Nanosheets. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (18) , 11177-11189. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01631
Xiao Jiang, Bar Mosevitzky Lis, Stephen C. Purdy, Sreya Paladugu, Victor Fung, Wenying Quan, Zhenghong Bao, Weiwei Yang, Yang He, Bobby G. Sumpter, Katharine Page, Israel E. Wachs, Zili Wu. CO2-Assisted Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over VOx/In2O3 Catalysts: Interplay between Redox Property and Acid–Base Interactions. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (18) , 11239-11252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c02099
Yuki Nakaya, Eigo Hayashida, Hiroyuki Asakura, Satoru Takakusagi, Shunsaku Yasumura, Ken-ichi Shimizu, Shinya Furukawa. High-Entropy Intermetallics Serve Ultrastable Single-Atom Pt for Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (35) , 15944-15953. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01200
Guang-Di Wang, Jia-Wei Jiang, Zhi-Jun Sui, Yi-An Zhu, Xing-Gui Zhou. Kinetic Promotion Effect of Hydrogen and Dimethyl Disulfide Addition on Propane Dehydrogenation over the Pt–Sn–K/Al2O3 Catalyst. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (35) , 30773-30781. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c01729
Chen Song, Jiarui Wang, Simin Wang, Jian Wen. Experimental and Theoretical Study of the Impact of Operating Conditions on Catalytic Propane Dehydrogenation in a Fluidized Bed Reactor. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (34) , 12434-12447. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c01729
Yong Yuan, Jason S. Lee, Raul F. Lobo. Ga+-Chabazite Zeolite: A Highly Selective Catalyst for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (33) , 15079-15092. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03941
Jeonghyun Ko, Hanyu Ma, William F. Schneider. Kinetic Origins of High Selectivity of Metal Phosphides for Ethane Dehydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (33) , 12083-12091. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02044
Chengwu Qiu, Yaroslav Odarchenko, Qingwei Meng, Shaojun Xu, Ines Lezcano-Gonzalez, Paul Olalde-Velasco, Francesco Maccherozzi, Laura Zanetti-Domingues, Marisa Martin-Fernandez, Andrew M. Beale. Resolving the Effect of Oxygen Vacancies on Co Nanostructures Using Soft XAS/X-PEEM. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (15) , 9125-9134. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00611
Lukas Rochlitz, Quentin Pessemesse, Jörg W. A. Fischer, Daniel Klose, Adam H. Clark, Milivoj Plodinec, Gunnar Jeschke, Pierre-Adrien Payard, Christophe Copéret. A Robust and Efficient Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst from Unexpectedly Segregated Pt2Mn Nanoparticles. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (29) , 13384-13393. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c05618
Lingli Ni, Rachit Khare, Ricardo Bermejo-Deval, Ruixue Zhao, Lei Tao, Yue Liu, Johannes A. Lercher. Highly Active and Selective Sites for Propane Dehydrogenation in Zeolite Ga-BEA. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (27) , 12347-12356. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03810
Zhong-Pan Hu, Gangqiang Qin, Jingfeng Han, Wenna Zhang, Nan Wang, Yijun Zheng, Qike Jiang, Te Ji, Zhong-Yong Yuan, Jianping Xiao, Yingxu Wei, Zhongmin Liu. Atomic Insight into the Local Structure and Microenvironment of Isolated Co-Motifs in MFI Zeolite Frameworks for Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (27) , 12127-12137. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c02636
Genwei Chen, Lingzhe Fang, Tao Li, Yizhi Xiang. Ultralow-Loading Pt/Zn Hybrid Cluster in Zeolite HZSM-5 for Efficient Dehydroaromatization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (26) , 11831-11839. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c04278
Jiajia Shi, Yao Wei, Dan Zhou, Leilei Zhang, Xiaofeng Yang, Zhili Miao, Haifeng Qi, Shengxin Zhang, Anqi Li, Xiaoyan Liu, Wensheng Yan, Zheng Jiang, Aiqin Wang, Tao Zhang. Introducing Co–O Moiety to Co–N–C Single-Atom Catalyst for Ethylbenzene Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (13) , 7760-7772. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01873
Jinqiu Guo, Mi Peng, Zhimin Jia, Chengyu Li, Hongyang Liu, Hongbo Zhang, Ding Ma. Kinetic Evidence of Most Abundant Surface Intermediates Variation over Ptn and Ptp: Few-Atom Pt Ensembles Enable Efficient Catalytic Cyclohexane Dehydrogenation for Hydrogen Production-II. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7248-7261. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01420
Kai Bian, Guanghui Zhang, Jie Zhu, Xiang Wang, Mingrui Wang, Feijian Lou, Yi Liu, Chunshan Song, Xinwen Guo. Promoting Propane Dehydrogenation with CO2 over the PtFe Bimetallic Catalyst by Eliminating the Non-selective Fe(0) Phase. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (11) , 6559-6569. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00649
Xiao Jiang, Xuanyu Zhang, Stephen C. Purdy, Yang He, Zhennan Huang, Rui You, Zeyue Wei, Harry M. Meyer III, Jiuzhong Yang, Yang Pan, Peiwen Wu, Wenshuai Zhu, Miaofang Chi, Katharine Page, Weixin Huang, Zili Wu. Multiple Promotional Effects of Vanadium Oxide on Boron Nitride for Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. JACS Au 2022, 2 (5) , 1096-1104. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.1c00542
Jiapei Wang, Min Liu, Junjie Li, Chuanfu Wang, Xinbao Zhang, Yingbin Zheng, Xiujie Li, Longya Xu, Xinwen Guo, Chunshan Song, Xiangxue Zhu. Elucidating the Active-Phase Evolution of Fe-Based Catalysts during Isobutane Dehydrogenation with and without CO2 in Feed Gas. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5930-5938. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05907
Yu-Ling Shan, Huai-Lu Sun, Shi-Lei Zhao, Pei-Long Tang, Wen-Ting Zhao, Jun-Wei Ding, Wen-Long Yu, Li-Na Li, Xiang Feng, De Chen. Effects of Support and CO2 on the Performances of Vanadium Oxide-Based Catalysts in Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5736-5749. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00878
Eleonora Vottero, Michele Carosso, Alberto Ricchebuono, Monica Jiménez-Ruiz, Riccardo Pellegrini, Céline Chizallet, Pascal Raybaud, Elena Groppo, Andrea Piovano. Evidence for H2-Induced Ductility in a Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5979-5989. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00606
Yong Peng, Josep Albero, Antonio Franconetti, Patricia Concepción, Hermenegildo García. Visible and NIR Light Assistance of the N2 Reduction to NH3 Catalyzed by Cs-promoted Ru Nanoparticles Supported on Strontium Titanate. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (9) , 4938-4946. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00509
Ming-Hsien Lee, Jiayan Xu, Wenbo Xie. Exploring the Stability of Single-Atom Catalysts Using the Density Functional Theory-Based Global Optimization Method: H2 Formation on VOx/γ-Al2O3(100). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (16) , 6973-6981. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c10740
Mona Abdelgaid, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Lewis Acid–Base Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4268-4289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00229
Dan Zhao, Ke Guo, Shanlei Han, Dmitry E. Doronkin, Henrik Lund, Jianshu Li, Jan-Dierk Grunwaldt, Zhen Zhao, Chunming Xu, Guiyuan Jiang, Evgenii V. Kondratenko. Controlling Reaction-Induced Loss of Active Sites in ZnOx/Silicalite-1 for Durable Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4608-4617. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05778
Meledath Sudhakaran Keerthana, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Palladium-Catalyzed Aerobic α,β-Dehydrogenation of Aliphatic Amides. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2022, 87 (7) , 4873-4882. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c00226
Alberto Rodriguez-Gomez, Samy Ould-Chikh, Javier Castells-Gil, Antonio Aguilar-Tapia, Pierre Bordet, Mogbel A. Alrushaid, Carlos Marti-Gastaldo, Jorge Gascon. Fe-MOF Materials as Precursors for the Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Isobutane. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (7) , 3832-3844. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05303
Yanfei Zhang, Liang Qi, Branden Leonhardt, Alexis T. Bell. Mechanism and Kinetics of n-Butane Dehydrogenation to 1,3-Butadiene Catalyzed by Isolated Pt Sites Grafted onto ≡SiOZn–OH Nests in Dealuminated Zeolite Beta. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (6) , 3333-3345. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00059
Alan J. Barrios, Deizi V. Peron, Anoop Chakkingal, Achim Iulian Dugulan, Simona Moldovan, Kalthoum Nakouri, Joëlle Thuriot-Roukos, Robert Wojcieszak, Joris W. Thybaut, Mirella Virginie, Andrei Y. Khodakov. Efficient Promoters and Reaction Paths in the CO2 Hydrogenation to Light Olefins over Zirconia-Supported Iron Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (5) , 3211-3225. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05648
Mi Peng, Zhimin Jia, Zirui Gao, Ming Xu, Danyang Cheng, Meng Wang, Chengyu Li, Linlin Wang, Xiangbin Cai, Zheng Jiang, Hong Jiang, Ning Wang, Dequan Xiao, Hongyang Liu, Ding Ma. Antisintering Pd1 Catalyst for Propane Direct Dehydrogenation with In Situ Active Sites Regeneration Ability. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (4) , 2244-2252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05590
Charles Fricke, Biplab Rajbanshi, Eric A. Walker, Gabriel Terejanu, Andreas Heyden. Propane Dehydrogenation on Platinum Catalysts: Identifying the Active Sites through Bayesian Analysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (4) , 2487-2498. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04844
Scott A. Steinmetz, Andrew T. DeLaRiva, Christopher Riley, Paul Schrader, Abhaya Datye, Erik D. Spoerke, Christopher J. Kliewer. Gas-Phase Hydrogen-Atom Measurement above Catalytic and Noncatalytic Materials during Ethane Dehydrogenation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (6) , 3054-3059. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c09955
Yong Yuan, Raul F. Lobo, Bingjun Xu. Ga2O22+ Stabilized by Paired Framework Al Atoms in MFI: A Highly Reactive Site in Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (3) , 1775-1783. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05724
Bofeng Zhang, Guozhu Li, Sibao Liu, Yucai Qin, Lijuan Song, Li Wang, Xiangwen Zhang, Guozhu Liu. Boosting Propane Dehydrogenation over PtZn Encapsulated in an Epitaxial High-Crystallized Zeolite with a Low Surface Barrier. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (2) , 1310-1314. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04092
Che-Wei Chang, Hien N. Pham, Ryan Alcala, Abhaya K. Datye, Jeffrey T. Miller. Dehydroaromatization Pathway of Propane on PtZn/SiO2 + ZSM-5 Bifunctional Catalyst. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2022, 10 (1) , 394-409. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c06579
Kyle Groden, Fernando D. Vila, Li Li, Simon R. Bare, Susannah L. Scott, Jean-Sabin McEwen. First-Principles Approach to Extracting Chemical Information from X-ray Absorption Near-Edge Spectra of Ga-Containing Materials. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (51) , 27901-27908. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c07728
Diana Berman, Ali Erdemir. Achieving Ultralow Friction and Wear by Tribocatalysis: Enabled by In-Operando Formation of Nanocarbon Films. ACS Nano 2021, 15 (12) , 18865-18879. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c08170
Yehong Wang, Zhixin Zhang, Lijun Lei, Wen Liu, Shuyan Du, Xiangxue Zhu, Xiujie Li, Feng Wang. Defect-Dependent Selective C–H/C–C Bond Cleavage of Propane in the Presence of CO2 over FeNi/Ceria Catalysts. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2021, 9 (51) , 17301-17309. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c06095
Wenkai Chen, Kuiyi You, Yanan Wei, Fangfang Zhao, Zhenpan Chen, Jian Wu, Qiuhong Ai, He’an Luo. Highly Dispersed Low-Polymeric VOx/Silica Gel Catalyst for Efficient Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Propane to Propylene. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (50) , 18327-18336. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c03935
Liang Qi, Melike Babucci, Yanfei Zhang, Alicia Lund, Lingmei Liu, Jingwei Li, Yizhen Chen, Adam S. Hoffman, Simon R. Bare, Yu Han, Bruce C. Gates, Alexis T. Bell. Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyzed by Isolated Pt Atoms in ≡SiOZn–OH Nests in Dealuminated Zeolite Beta. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (50) , 21364-21378. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c10261
Yang He, Hanzhong Shi, Olusola Johnson, Babu Joseph, John N. Kuhn. Selective and Stable In-Promoted Fe Catalyst for Syngas Conversion to Light Olefins. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (24) , 15177-15186. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04334
Weiyu Song, Kuichao Yu, Xiangyang Ji, Bowen Liu, Zhi Li, Yanjun Chen, Jian Liu. Computational Screening and Experimental Synthesis of Doped TiO2 for Propane Dehydrogenation. Energy & Fuels 2021, 35 (23) , 19624-19633. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.1c03200
Teng-Fei Xiao, Yi-Fan Zhang, Wen-Tao Hou, Pen-Ji Yan, Jun Hai, Peng-Fei Xu, Guo-Qiang Xu. Dehydrogenation/(3+2) Cycloaddition of Saturated Aza-Heterocycles via Merging Organic Photoredox and Lewis Acid Catalysis. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (22) , 8942-8946. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c03431
Douglas A. Blom, Thomas Vogt. Detecting Framework Distortions Predicted by Hybrid-DFT: An Opportunity to Improve the M1 Catalyst. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (45) , 11158-11163. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c02941
Aihua Zhang, Hui Wang, Joshua Miles, Junjun Shan, Amin Sardar, Louis Guillen. Two-Step Process for Feasible Conversion of Ethane to Aromatics: Concept and Demonstration. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (45) , 16233-16244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c03772
Ming-Yu Qi, Marco Conte, Masakazu Anpo, Zi-Rong Tang, Yi-Jun Xu. Cooperative Coupling of Oxidative Organic Synthesis and Hydrogen Production over Semiconductor-Based Photocatalysts. Chemical Reviews 2021, 121 (21) , 13051-13085. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00197
Lohit Sharma, Xiao Jiang, Zili Wu, Andrew DeLaRiva, Abhaya K. Datye, John Baltrus, Srinivas Rangarajan, Jonas Baltrusaitis. Atomically Dispersed Tin-Modified γ-alumina for Selective Propane Dehydrogenation under H2S Co-feed. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13472-13482. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c02859
Yuebing Xu, Wenda Yu, Hao Zhang, Jian Xin, Xiaohui He, Bing Liu, Feng Jiang, Xiaohao Liu. Suppressing C–C Bond Dissociation for Efficient Ethane Dehydrogenation over the Isolated Co(II) Sites in SAPO-34. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13001-13019. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03382
Jiajing Kou, Johnny Zhu Chen, Junxian Gao, Xiaoben Zhang, Jie Zhu, Arnab Ghosh, Wei Liu, A. Jeremy Kropf, Dmitry Zemlyanov, Rui Ma, Xinwen Guo, Abhaya K. Datye, Guanghui Zhang, Liejin Guo, Jeffrey T. Miller. Structural and Catalytic Properties of Isolated Pt2+ Sites in Platinum Phosphide (PtP2). ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13496-13509. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03970
Alexis Sangnier, Eric Genty, Mathilde Iachella, Philippe Sautet, Pascal Raybaud, Mickaël Matrat, Christophe Dujardin, Céline Chizallet. Thermokinetic and Spectroscopic Mapping of Carbon Monoxide Adsorption on Highly Dispersed Pt/γ-Al2O3. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13280-13293. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04262
Load more citations
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Consumption of ethylene, propylene, and butylenes in 2004, 2010, and 2016 (predicted). In addition, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right. These (predicted) numbers originate from ref. 7.
Figure 2
Figure 2. World map showing an overview of propane dehydrogenation installations currently in operation (filled shapes) and installations that have been announced and are expected to start up before 2018 (unfilled shapes). The numbers represent the maximum production of each plant (×1000 tons per year). The locations of the facilities are approximations. (16, 17, 44, 45) For some of the newly announced PDH installations (□), the industrial process to be used remains to be announced.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematic representation of a Catofin dehydrogenation unit. Eight parallel reactors alternate between dehydrogenation (DH), purge, and regeneration (regen). Olefins produced are separated from side products that are subsequently mixed with oxygen and combusted to heat the reactors during the regeneration step.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic representation of an Oleflex dehydrogenation unit. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate paraffins, cracking products, and hydrogen from olefins is shown.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Schematic representation of a Steam Active Reforming (STAR) dehydrogenation unit. The system comprises two fixed bed reactors, one located in an oven and an oxyreactor where hydrogen is combusted. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate the olefins from paraffins, cracking products, and residual hydrogen is shown.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Schematic representation of the Fluidized Bed Dehydrogenation (FBD) reactor system. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Schematic representation of the Linde-BASF PDH process. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Equilibrium conversion of C2–C4 paraffins to olefins as a function of temperature at 1 bar (left) and pressure dependence of the dehydrogenation of propane as a function of temperature (right).
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Examples of the Side Reactions That May Occur When 1-Butene Is Exposed to a Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst: (1) Hydrogenolysis, (2) Thermal Cracking, (3) Catalytic Cracking, and (4) Isomerization
Figure 9
Figure 9. Structure sensitivity of ethane hydrogenolysis on 1% Pt/SBA-15 with Pt particle size ranging from 1.7 to 7.1 nm. Reprinted with permission from ref. 69, copyright 2005, American Chemical Society.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Selectivity to butenes as a function of the number of butane pulses on a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst doped with different amounts of Na (left) and TPO profiles of the spent catalysts (right) showing that Na has a positive effect on the selectivity and that the presence of Na decreases the coke deposition, respectively. Reprinted from ref. 84, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 11
Figure 11. In the figures to the left, HERFD-XANES intensity contour maps (Pt-L3 edge) of Pt/Al2O3 (top) and Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (bottom) catalysts are shown at different stages of a dehydrogenation experiment. The figures to the right depict the interpretation of Iglesia-Juez et al. for these spectra in terms of changes to the Pt nanoparticles. Reprinted from ref 122, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 12
Figure 12. An artist’s impression of a Pt–Sn nanoparticle within a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst is shown as was discussed in the preceding section. The surface of the alumina is covered with SnO2, which gets reduced when in close proximity to Pt and incorporated into a bimetallic Pt–Sn nanoparticle. Surface Pt atoms catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction according to the mechanism shown in the inset.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Graphs represent Raman spectra of x wt % CrOx/SBA-15 and CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts (x: a = 0.5, b = 1, c = 5, d = 10). Bands attributed to CrO42– and Cr–O–Cr species are observed at different loadings and correspond with isolated Cr atoms and crystalline Cr2O3. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 14
Figure 14. In situ XANES spectra of the Cr K-edge of the 5 wt % catalysts after oxidative pretreatment (−), after 90 s of dehydrogenation (black - - -), after 15 min of PDH (gray – – −), and after regeneration (gray −). Notably, the Cr6+ species present on the catalyst are reduced to Cr3+ species in the first 90 s of the reaction. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Graph to the left shows in situ diffuse reflectance spectra obtained during the dehydrogenation of propane on a CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst. In the right set of graphs, the relative change of bands (B–D) corresponding to Cr3+ and Cr6+ is shown. Both graphs illustrate that Cr3+ (band at 700 nm) is formed at the expense of Cr6+ (bands at 260 and 370 nm) during PDH. Reprinted from ref 150, copyright 2011, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Yield of butenes at 540 °C over a chromia–alumina catalyst as a function of Cr loading. Activity increases linearly with Cr loading, even above monolayer coverage. However, the yield drops once Cr2O3 crystallites start being detected via XRD. Reprinted from ref 163, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 17
Figure 17. To the left, the conversion and selectivity observed in a 86 min period of propane dehydrogenation on a 13 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. Conversion drops over time, while the selectivity remains stable after increasing during the initial stages of the reaction. To the right, the mass uptake of the catalyst as measured by a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) is shown as a function of time-on-stream. Over the first 40 min, the catalyst mass increases due to coke deposition, after which it remains stable. Reproduced from ref 180, with permission from the PCCP Owner Societies.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Top graph shows the ex situ diffuse reflectance UV–vis spectra of both fresh and deactivated CrOx/Al2O3. The bottom left graph shows the extent of the shift for the bands at 600 and 450 nm, which correspond to the first and second d–d transitions, respectively. The bottom right graph shows that the fraction of Cr3+ incorporated into the alumina framework is strongly dependent on the calcination temperature. Reprinted from ref 49 (top graph), copyright 2004, and ref 172 (bottom two graphs), copyright 2002, both with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 19
Figure 19. TPR profiles of 6 wt % CrOx on different supports. The catalysts with a strong reduction peak at low temperatures show the highest catalytic activity. The figure is reproduced from ref. 179 with kind permission from Springer Science and Business Media.
Figure 20
Figure 20. An artist’s impression of the surface of a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst in which coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction. Note that partially reduced CrOx species are formed on the surface of the catalyst, and that the Cr is partially dissolved in the alumina support. The (simplified) reaction mechanism is shown in the inset.
Figure 21
Figure 21. Various vanadium oxide species present on a catalyst support (S): isolated vanadium oxide species (a), dimers (b), two-dimensional chains of vanadium oxide species (c), and V2O5 crystallites (d). Reprinted from ref 201, copyright 2003, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 22
Figure 22. Vanadium 2p3/2 XPS spectra of a VOx/Al2O3 catalyst calcined (top) and reduced with CO (bottom). Reduction yields a mixture of V5+, V4+, and V3+. Reprinted from ref 207, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 23
Figure 23. Yield of different carbon molecules during butane dehydrogenation on a MoOxCy catalyst at different steam partial pressures. When no steam is added, the selectivity to C4 alkenes drops rapidly and the methane yield reaches 100% after 5 h. The hydrogenolysis reaction is suppressed when steam is added to the feed. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 24
Figure 24. XRD diffractograms of the fresh Mo oxycarbide catalyst before dehydrogenation, but after pretreatment (top left), as well as after dehydrogenation reaction with no steam (top right), with 5 Torr of steam (bottom left), and with 18 Torr of steam (bottom right). In the absence of steam, the well-defined MoO2 and MoOxCy species disappear during reaction and are replaced by more amorphous MoOxCy species, which are enriched with carbon and presumably responsible for hydrogenolysis. The addition of steam prevents this transformation and with 18 Torr of steam, MoO2 and ordered MoOxCy species are still observed on the spent catalysts. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 25
Figure 25. Concentration of Lewis acid sites versus propane conversion measured 15 min after the start of the PDH reaction on GaxAl10–xO15. A clear correlation between the conversion and the surface density of weak Lewis acid sites is observed. For these experiments, CO2 is used to improve conversion. Reprinted from ref 232, copyright 2008, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 26
Figure 26. TEM images of VOx/Al2O3 after butane dehydrogenation at 550 °C (left) and 700 °C (center and right). The high magnification image of the catalyst deactivated at 700 °C clearly shows that the catalyst is completely enveloped in a carbon layer a few nanometers thick. Nevertheless, this catalyst still displays a relatively high activity at 700 °C. Reprinted from ref 215, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 27
Figure 27. Propane conversion on a series of 20% In–80% metal mixed oxides showing InAlOx to be the most active formulation (left). Albeit other In:Al ratios were tested, 20% In–80% Al afforded the highest propylene yield. The TPR profiles of different In–Al mixed oxides after H2 reduction at 500 °C and subsequent treatment with CO2 at 600 °C are also shown (right). The peak at around 700 °C (labeled β) represents the reduction of In2O3 to In0; the total hydrogen consumption showing the In2O3 is nearly completely reduced to In0. The peak at 300 °C (labeled α) corresponds to the reduction of small In2O3 domains in the mixed oxide and suggests the formation of small metallic In particles. The absence of this peak in the top trace suggests that CO2 cannot reoxidize these particles at 600 °C. The graph to the left is reprinted from ref 260, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier. The graph to the right is reprinted from ref 262, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Dehydrogenation Mechanism As Proposed by Horiuti and Polanyi on a Pt Surfacea
Scheme aThe intermediates depicted have been observed by IR spectroscopy during the hydrogenation reaction at low temperatures and are supported by theoretical calculations. The dissociative adsorption of propane may also take place by the abstraction of the β-hydrogen, forming a 2-propyl intermediate, but for brevity this pathway is not shown. High paraffin pressures favor the formation of propylidyne species (step h-j), which are coke precursors. These species are relatively stable and can only be hydrogenated when high concentrations of hydrogen are present on the Pt surface. (292-297)
Figure 28
Figure 28. Energy profiles for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on Pt (111) (black), Pt3Sn (111) (blue), and Pt2Sn (111) (red) surfaces, as obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates are shown along with their corresponding energies. The recombination of the hydrogen adatoms is not considered. (114) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms for the Dehydrogenation of Ethane on CrOx Catalysts (144, 306, 307)
Figure 29
Figure 29. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on CrOx catalyst obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates from Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that for the second section of the scheme, a second propane molecule is dehydrogenated. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Figure 30
Figure 30. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on GaOx catalyst, as determined by DFT calculations on a Ga (100) surface. Intermediates analogous to those displayed in Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that two pathways for the dehydrogenation of propane are considered, one involving a radical intermediate and another an ethyl intermediate, the former having a lower energy barrier. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Proposed Pathway Linking the Formation of Strongly Adsorbed Propyl Species to That of an Aromatic Ring through a Series of Cracking (a–e), Deep Dehydrogenation (f–i), and/or Dimerization (f,g,j,k) Reactions (293, 294, 321)a
Scheme aNote that the adsorbed hydrocarbons shown in the scheme are examples of species formed on the Pt surface, and that they actually represent a family of similar species.
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Proposed Mechanisms for the Growth of Polyaromatic Species by Either Diels–Alder-type Addition, Propylene Addition via Radical Chemistry, or Fusion of Small Domains into Larger Ones (322, 323)a
Scheme aThe species will continue to grow in a similar fashion, and at a certain point are considered to be graphene-like sheets. The molecules in the scheme are only simplified hydrogen-deficient coke precursors that may be present on the surface of the catalyst. Such species are directly bonded to the Pt surface and in reality will contain significant amounts of hydrogen, either in hydrogen-terminated aromatic rings or in aliphatic side chains.
Figure 31
Figure 31. Propylene yield during propane dehydrogenation (left) and isobutene yield during isobutane dehydrogenation (right) versus the deactivation rate of catalysts included in Tables 3–9. Each data point is labeled with the number included in the first column of the relevant table, to distinguish between different catalysts. Catalyst systems displaying high yields combined with low deactivation rates are preferred.
Figure 32
Figure 32. Yield of propylene and isobutene versus WHSV (left and right, respectively) of the catalysts included in Tables 3–9. High yields obtained at high space velocities are preferred. Therefore, because Pt-based catalysts can afford comparable yields to catalysts based on metal oxides while operating at higher space velocities, they are deemed superior in this respect.
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Proposed Active Sites for the Pt-, CrOx-, and GaOx-Based Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts, the Order of Magnitude of Their Calculated Specific Activity, and the Reaction Rates (k/A) Calculated by DFT
Figure 33
Figure 33. To the left, a schematic representation of the pilot-scale reactor used for propane dehydrogenation is shown. Two UV–vis probes are inserted in the reactor to visualize the deactivation of the CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst as a function of time and catalyst bed height (the spectra acquired are shown in the center of the figure). This technique is excellent to visualize the coke-induced darkening of the catalyst extrudates from green to black, as is shown in the photographs to the right. Reproduced from ref 198, copyright 2013, by permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler was born in Veenendaal, The Netherlands, in 1986. He obtained his master’s degree in chemistry at Utrecht University. His thesis was on the subject of the intergrowth of zeolite materials studied by in situ microspectroscopy under the supervision of Dr. Marianne H. F. Kox and Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen. He continued working under the guidance of Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen for his Ph.D. research, which focusses on the deactivation of propane dehydrogenation catalysts.
Javier Ruiz-Martinez
Javier Ruiz-Martinez was born in Granada, Spain, in 1979. He completed his master’s degree in Chemical Engineering at the University of Granada and the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in 2003. After graduation, he started his Ph.D. under the supervision of Prof. Antonio Sepulveda-Escribano and Prof. Francisco Rodriguez-Reinoso at the University of Alicante, on the synthesis and characterization of Pt–Sn catalysts for selective hydrogenation and steam reforming reactions. During his Ph.D., he worked as a visiting researcher with Prof. James Anderson at the University of Aberdeen and with Prof. Burtron Davis and Dr. Gary Jacobs at the University of Kentucky Center for Applied Energy Research. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2009, he moved to Utrecht University as a postdoctoral research fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen, where he obtained a personal NWO Veni grant in 2012. Since October 2013, he is an assistant professor within the same group.
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez was born in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, in 1980. While studying chemistry at the Autonomous University of San Luis Potosi, he interned in the laboratory of Prof. David Atwood at the University of Kentucky (Lexington, KY), working on the removal of mercury from water. After graduation, he joined the University of Kentucky (UK) chemistry graduate program, performing his doctoral research on the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides at the UK Center for Applied Energy Research (CAER) and at the University of Alicante (Spain), under the guidance of Prof. Mark Crocker and Prof. Agustin Bueno-Lopez. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2008, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen at Utrecht University (The Netherlands), where part of his work centered on the study of propane dehydrogenation catalysts via operando spectroscopy. In 2010, he returned to the UK-CAER, where he now holds the position of Principal Research Scientist.
Bert M. Weckhuysen
Bert M. Weckhuysen was born in Aarschot, Belgium, in 1968. After receiving his Ph.D. in 1995 with Prof. Robert Schoonheydt from Leuven University, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow with Prof. Israel Wachs at Lehigh University and Prof. Jack Lunsford at Texas A&M University. Since 2000, he is full professor of inorganic chemistry and catalysis at Utrecht University. He has authored over 340 publications in peer-reviewed scientific journals. Weckhuysen has received several research awards for his work on in situ catalyst characterization, the most recent being the 2011 Paul H. Emmett Award in Fundamental Catalysis from the North American Catalysis Society, the 2012 International Catalysis Award from the International Association of Catalysis Societies, the 2013 Royal Society of Chemistry Bourke Award, and the 2013 Spinoza Award from The Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research.

1 Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
1.1 Setting the Scene
Because of their extensive use as chemical building blocks, light olefins, such as propylene (propene) and ethylene (ethene), are among the most important types of compounds in the chemical industry. Light olefins are the feedstock employed in the production of a vast array of chemicals, including polymers (e.g., polyethylene and polypropylene), oxygenates (e.g., ethylene glycol, acetaldehyde, acetone, and propylene oxide), and important chemical intermediates (e.g., ethylbenzene and propionaldehyde). (1-4) The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn. (5) In Figure 1, the uses as well as the recent and predicted future growth of the olefin supply and demand are shown. (6) Steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) of naphtha, light diesel, and other oil byproducts are the most common methods for obtaining these light olefins. For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced. (7)
Figure 1
Figure 1. Consumption of ethylene, propylene, and butylenes in 2004, 2010, and 2016 (predicted). In addition, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right. These (predicted) numbers originate from ref. 7.
A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies. In recent years, hydraulic fracturing or “fracking” technologies have improved to the point where large volumes of shale gas can be extracted in a cost-effective manner. In fact, the United States already obtains one-quarter of their natural gas production from shale gas deposits, and this is expected to rise even further in the coming years due to the emphasis that is being given to the attainment of energy independence. (8, 9) This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals. This includes light olefins, which can be obtained by first converting natural gas into synthesis gas and by subsequently converting the latter either directly through the Fischer–Tropsch-to-olefins (FTO) process or indirectly through the methanol-to-olefins (MTO) route with an intermediate methanol synthesis step. (10, 11)
Table 1. Gas Composition of Six Different Shale Gas Deposits in the United Statesa
shale deposit methane (%) ethane (%) propane (%) carbon oxides (%) nitrogen (%)
Barnett Shale (avg of four wells) 86.8 6.7 2.0 1.7 2.9
Marcellus Shale (avg of four wells) 85.2 11.3 2.9 0.4 0.3
Fayetteville Shale (one well) 97.3 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.7
New Albany Shale (avg of four wells, N2 not reported) 89.9 1.1 1.1 7.9  
Antrim Shale (avg of four wells) 62.0 4.2 1.1 3.8 29.0
Haynesville Shale (one well) 95.0 0.1 0 4.8 0.1
aLarger hydrocarbons, hydrogen, and oxygen are present in trace amounts and are not given. (12)
As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas. (13) Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council. (14)
The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted. Relative to naphtha cracking, steam cracking of ethane produces a negligible amount of olefins other than ethylene, which is why the supply of propylene has dropped and its price has risen sharply, creating opportunities for on-purpose catalytic technologies, such as the catalytic dehydrogenation of light paraffins into the corresponding olefins. (15) Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable. An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products. In fact, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity. As of this writing, ca. 5 million tons of propylene is produced annually by propane dehydrogenation (PDH). (16, 17) However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction. (18-21)
Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply. Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices. This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan. (22-25)
1.2 Scope of This Review
Because dehydrogenation for the production of light olefins has become extremely relevant in recent times, we aim to provide the reader with a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze this reaction. First, we will introduce the subject by considering the industrial processes that have been patented and applied and the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation reaction. Next, the Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts that are currently used in commercial processes will be examined in detail. Additionally, other metal oxides, such as GaOx, VOx, MoOx, and InOx, which have also proven to be promising dehydrogenation catalysts will be surveyed. For each catalytic material, relevant factors, such as the specific nature of the active sites, as well as the effect of support, promoters, and reaction feed on catalyst performance and lifetime, will be discussed. Finally, we will compare different catalysts both in terms of the reaction mechanism and deactivation pathways and in terms of catalytic performance. To the best of our knowledge, no attempt has been made to compare such a wide range of dehydrogenation catalysts in a single review article, although other reviews have been published in recent years dealing with the dehydrogenation of light paraffins. For example, Bhasin et al. wrote an extensive review on the industrial application of dehydrogenation technologies in 2001, which includes a comparative discussion of the state of the art of oxidative dehydrogenation technologies. (26) Two more review articles by Vora and Bricker (UOP) were published in 2012. In the first review article, Vora gives a general overview of the dehydrogenation of light olefins and ethylbenzene on Pt-based catalysts, discussing important principles for catalyst and reactor design. (27) In the second review paper, Bricker addresses catalyst design in more detail, emphasizing mass transfer and the use of selective hydrogen combustion to increase olefin yield. (28) Other reviews focusing on a specific family of dehydrogenation catalysts have also been published. For example, Weckhuysen and Schoonheydt reviewed the dehydrogenation of alkanes on supported chromium oxide catalysts in 1999. (29) Dehydrogenation of alkanes on vanadium and chromium oxides is also discussed by Jackson et al. in a book on metal oxide catalysis published in 2009. (30) The chemistry of vanadium oxide for oxidative dehydrogenation has been further discussed in a review by Albonetti et al. (31) Another review by Cavani et al. discusses the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane on supported vanadium and molybdenum oxides. The authors conclude that, although the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane has potential, the oxidative dehydrogenation of higher paraffins is still far from being commercially applied. (32) The nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light paraffins on both supported and bulk transition metal oxides has also been discussed by Copéret in a review focused on C–H bond activation. (33) Also of note are three reviews by Krylov, Wang, and Ansari, where the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes is discussed. (34-36) Finally, in a chapter by Caspary et al. in the most recent edition of the Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, the dehydrogenation of alkanes is discussed broadly, albeit emphasis is placed on CrOx and Pt catalysts, on the kinetics and mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction, and on reactor technology. (37)
2 Commercial Dehydrogenation Processes
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
To date, five main industrial processes for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes have been patented, two of which are currently being used to produce light olefins. (38-41) As of April 2012, 5 million tons of propylene was being produced by the 14 propane dehydrogenation plants around the globe. (16, 17) The global demand of propylene was 103 million tons that year and is expected to increase by 4–5% on a yearly basis. (42, 43) Literally dozens of new installations have been planned or are already under construction, amounting to an additional 14 million tons of propylene to be produced annually by 2018. (16, 17, 44) Additionally, six isobutane dehydrogenation installations are currently in operation, with three other plants planned. (43) The majority of these new facilities will be built in China or the United States and will use either the Catofin (Lummus) or the Oleflex (UOP) technologies. A compilation of all existing and planned propane dehydrogenation installations is shown in Figure 2. Furthermore, in Table 2, a comparison is made between the two most important processes, Catofin and Oleflex. The STAR (UHDE) process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East. The other two processes, fluidized bed dehydrogenation (FBD) process (Snamprogetti and Yarsintez) and Linde-BASF PDH, have not yet been commercially applied.
Figure 2
Figure 2. World map showing an overview of propane dehydrogenation installations currently in operation (filled shapes) and installations that have been announced and are expected to start up before 2018 (unfilled shapes). The numbers represent the maximum production of each plant (×1000 tons per year). The locations of the facilities are approximations. (16, 17, 44, 45) For some of the newly announced PDH installations (□), the industrial process to be used remains to be announced.
2.1 Catofin Process
The Catofin process, by CB&I Lummus, is based on the Houdry Catadiene process, which originally was exclusively used for the dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutene. In turn, isobutene was employed for the production of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), a fuel additive used to raise the octane number of gasoline. For environmental reasons, the use of MTBE has declined in recent years, causing a shift in the use of Catofin installations to alternative purposes, such as propane dehydrogenation. A Catofin installation generally consists of 5–8 parallel adiabatic fixed bed reactors containing a chromia–alumina catalyst. The reaction is run at temperatures of approximately 575 °C and pressures between 0.2 and 0.5 bar. (26) Each reactor alternates between dehydrogenation, regeneration, and purge steps, each lasting a few minutes (15–30 min being needed for one full cycle). Each individual reactor is made to run continuously so there are always some units performing dehydrogenation reactions, while other reactors are being regenerated or purged, which results in a constant flow of reaction products. (46) A schematic of a Catofin dehydrogenation installation is shown in Figure 3. The duration of the dehydrogenation step depends on the heat content of the catalyst bed, which decreases rapidly due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. Part of the heat required for the reaction is introduced to the reactors by preheating the reaction feed, additional heat being provided by adjacent reactors that are regenerating the coked catalysts. Moreover, fuel gas is added to the reactor during the regeneration step to generate supplementary heat, (47) and inert material is added to the catalyst bed to increase its heat storage capacity. (48) The catalyst remains in use for 2–3 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span. (29, 49)
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematic representation of a Catofin dehydrogenation unit. Eight parallel reactors alternate between dehydrogenation (DH), purge, and regeneration (regen). Olefins produced are separated from side products that are subsequently mixed with oxygen and combusted to heat the reactors during the regeneration step.
2.2 Oleflex Process
The Oleflex process by UOP uses a very different reactor design comprising fluidized bed reactors, a catalyst regeneration unit, and a product recovery section. A schematic representation is shown in Figure 4. (50) The reaction is run using a Pt–Sn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 °C. Three or four adiabatic radial flow reactors containing the catalyst are connected in series with preheaters in between. These gas flow preheaters represent the main source of heat of the reactor system. The catalyst flows through the system, the last reactor being connected to a continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) unit that regenerates the catalyst by burning of any carbon deposits and redisperses the Pt on the support material by means of treating the catalyst with a chlorine–air mixture. The entire system is designed to operate continuously to obtain an uninterrupted stream of reaction products. The regenerated catalyst is then reintroduced to the first reactor, completing an entire cycle every 5–10 days. Product recovery is done by cooling, compressing, and drying the reactor effluent, hydrogen being cryogenically separated from the hydrocarbons. The latter are led through a selective hydrogenation unit to remove diolefins and acetylenes. Polymer-quality propylene is obtained after flowing the hydrocarbons through a de-ethanizer and a propane–propylene splitter. More detailed information on the Catofin and Oleflex processes is presented in Table 2.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic representation of an Oleflex dehydrogenation unit. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate paraffins, cracking products, and hydrogen from olefins is shown.
Table 2. Specifics of the Catofin and Oleflex Commercial Dehydrogenation Processes (43, 44, 46, 50-55)
  Catofin Oleflex
catalyst formulation 18–20 wt % CrOx on an alumina support, promoted by 1–2 wt % Na or K <1 wt % Pt and 1–2 wt % Sn on an alumina support, promoted by 0–1 wt % Na or K
process license holder CB&I Lummus UOP (Honeywell)
used for dehydrogenation of propane, isobutane and isopentanes dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane
operating conditions 575 °C at 0.2–0.5 bar 525–705 °C at 1–3 bar
reactor type typically multiple parallel fixed bed reactors a fluidized bed reactor consisting of three separate parts: several reactors in series, a product recovery section, and catalyst regeneration section
main source of heat supply heating of the catalyst material during regeneration preheating of the starting and intermediate gases before each reactor
reaction program typically 12 min of dehydrogenation, 3 min of purge, 12 min of regeneration, and 3 min of purge the separate parts of the reactor run continuously as the fluidized catalyst bed moves from one section to the next
deactivation deposition of coke and thermal sintering of the alumina support leading to a loss of surface area deposition of coke and sintering of the Pt nanoparticles; in addition, catalyst particle attrition is an issue due to the fluidized bed
regeneration combustion of the coke deposits combustion of the coke deposits and chlorine addition to assist with Pt redispersion
catalyst lifetime 2–3 years before the reactor is shut down and the catalyst is replaced; catalyst lifetime is prolonged by increasing the temperature to maintain high propylene yield at the cost of lower selectivity 1–3 years, new catalyst being continuously added to the reactor system and dusts formed due to catalyst attrition being continually removed
2.3 Other Patented Alkane Dehydrogenation Processes
The Steam Active Reforming (STAR) process developed by Uhde utilizes a very different reactor setup. The reaction is run at 6–9 bar and at temperatures between 500 and 600 °C, steam being added to the feed to reduce paraffin partial pressure and coke formation. Because the catalyst has to be stable in the presence of steam, Pt–Sn supported on a (basic) zinc–aluminate is used with calcium/magnesium–aluminate as a binder. Very little coke is deposited on the catalyst surface, and thus dehydrogenation cycles may be as long as 7 h before regeneration becomes necessary.
A fixed bed reactor system is used, consisting of two separate reactors placed in series. (37, 56) The first is a top-fired tubular reformer-type reactor, which is externally heated by an oven. Most of the heat is provided at the top of the reactor, where the dehydrogenation activity is highest. The gas mixture exiting the first reactor is cooled prior to being introduced into the second so-called oxyreactor, where an oxygen–steam mixture is used to selectively combust part of the hydrogen formed, shifting the equilibrium toward higher olefin yields. In addition, the combustion of hydrogen provides the heat required for the additional conversion of propane. The olefins in the resulting gas mixture are separated from any residual hydrogen and other side products, which are combusted to heat the dehydrogenation reactor oven. A schematic representation of this reactor setup is shown in Figure 5. Currently, two dehydrogenation installations using the Uhde STAR process are being constructed in Egypt and Iran.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Schematic representation of a Steam Active Reforming (STAR) dehydrogenation unit. The system comprises two fixed bed reactors, one located in an oven and an oxyreactor where hydrogen is combusted. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate the olefins from paraffins, cracking products, and residual hydrogen is shown.
Figure 6 shows a schematic representation of the Fluidized Bed Dehydrogenation (FBD) process, licensed by Snamprogetti and Yarsintez, in which a fluid catalytic cracking-like reactor system is used for the dehydrogenation of propane. An alkane is flowed through a staged fluidized bed at pressures between 1.1 and 1.5 bar and temperatures between 550 and 600 °C. A CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, promoted with an alkali metal, is used. The catalyst deactivates over time and is therefore continuously transported to a regenerator connected to the reactor to combust the carbon deposits. The heat required for the dehydrogenation reaction is provided by heating the catalyst material to temperatures above 700 °C in the regenerator. A fuel gas is routinely added during regeneration as the combustion of the carbon deposits alone does not provide enough heat to achieve these temperatures. Upon its return to the reactor, the catalyst cools again to temperatures below 560 °C. Finally, a system comprising a jet scrubber and cyclones in the head of the reactor is used to remove any dust formed by catalyst attrition. (48)
Figure 6
Figure 6. Schematic representation of the Fluidized Bed Dehydrogenation (FBD) reactor system. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
The Linde-BASF PDH process, of which a schematic representation is shown in Figure 7, uses a Pt–Sn catalyst supported on ZrO2 for dehydrogenating light paraffins isothermally at a temperature of 590 °C. The process shows various similarities with the STAR process, as the reaction feed is diluted with steam and an externally heated fixed bed reactor is used. Three of these reactors operate in parallel, with two in dehydrogenation and one in regeneration mode, ensuring a continuous flow of reaction products. A mixture of air and steam is used to regenerate the catalyst, and the reactor is purged before and after the regeneration step. (37)
Figure 7
Figure 7. Schematic representation of the Linde-BASF PDH process. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
3 Thermodynamics of Nonoxidative Alkane Dehydrogenation
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
From the chemical perspective, dehydrogenation is a one-step reaction through which light paraffins can be converted into the corresponding olefins and hydrogen, as illustrated below for the dehydrogenation of propane:
However, the reaction is thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, which, according to Le Chatelier’s principle, implies that higher reaction temperature and/or lower paraffin partial pressure are needed to achieve high conversions. Indeed, temperatures of 550–750 °C are typically required in the dehydrogenation of C2–C4 paraffins to obtain alkane conversions ≥50% at 1 bar (see Figure 8). Moreover, given that the enthalpy required to dehydrogenate alkanes decreases as the chain becomes longer (ΔH2980 = 137 kJ mol–1 for ethane, 124.3 kJ mol–1 for propane, and 117.6 kJ mol–1 for isobutane dehydrogenation), a considerably larger amount of energy is required to dehydrogenate light paraffins on a mass basis. The pressure dependence is also shown in Figure 8, lower pressures clearly resulting in higher olefin yields at a given temperature.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Equilibrium conversion of C2–C4 paraffins to olefins as a function of temperature at 1 bar (left) and pressure dependence of the dehydrogenation of propane as a function of temperature (right).
The C–H bonds in paraffins and olefins are considerably more reactive than C–C bonds, meaning that catalysts that favor C–H over C–C bond cleavage are required to avoid side reactions. An additional complicating factor is that olefins are considerably more reactive than their paraffinic counterparts, which can further lead to unwanted side and secondary reactions. Three types of side reactions can occur, hydrogenolysis, cracking, and isomerization. In hydrogenolysis, the addition of hydrogen into a C–C bond within a paraffin results in the formation of two smaller alkanes. Because hydrogen adatoms and/or CxHy adspecies are required for alkane hydrogenolysis to occur, (57, 58) this reaction is believed to be catalyzed by Pt sites. Cracking also results in the cleavage of a paraffin to form two smaller hydrocarbons, although in this instance no hydrogen is required. Thermal cracking hardly occurs at dehydrogenation reaction conditions, as it requires temperatures of 450–750 °C and pressures of 5–70 bar. This reaction proceeds via the formation of radical intermediates, which rearrange into an alkane and an alkene. Catalytic cracking is different in the sense that it requires a catalyst with Brønsted and Lewis acidity and proceeds via the formation of a carbocation intermediate, albeit it also results in the formation of an alkene and an alkane. (59-61) Isomerization is the rearrangement of atoms within a molecule. For example, during the dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutene, the former may transform to 1- or 2-butene, which may dehydrogenate further to 1–3-butadiene. The rearrangement can take place via a carbocation intermediate formed on a Brønsted acid site, or through an adsorbed species on the active phase of the dehydrogenation catalyst. (62-64) By increasing the temperature, the rates of both C–H and C–C cleavage reactions are increased, and therefore temperature and pressure must be carefully controlled to achieve an optimal olefin yield. In short, the balance between dehydrogenation and these side reactions is very complex.
Fortunately, these side reactions are catalyzed by specific sites that are not required for dehydrogenation, which means that high olefin yields can be obtained by careful catalyst design. For instance, cracking reactions are efficiently catalyzed by Brønsted acid sites, while large Pt ensembles also display activity for hydrogenolysis, cracking, and isomerization reactions. Scheme 1 shows an overview of the side reactions that may be catalyzed by Brønsted acid and Pt sites on a typical Pt-based dehydrogenation catalyst. (26)
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Examples of the Side Reactions That May Occur When 1-Butene Is Exposed to a Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst: (1) Hydrogenolysis, (2) Thermal Cracking, (3) Catalytic Cracking, and (4) Isomerization
An additional problem is that the high temperatures required to obtain high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke. Consequently, the performance of dehydrogenation catalysts progressively deteriorates with time-on-stream, making it necessary to regenerate the catalysts frequently to preserve sufficient activity. This is particularly important when the process operates at high alkane conversions, due to the fact that polymerized olefins are believed to be coke precursors, as will be discussed in more detail in section 5.1. Hence, during the selection of the operational conditions in any industrial dehydrogenation process, a compromise must be struck between olefin selectivity and paraffin conversion.
Notably, the reaction equilibrium can be shifted to higher paraffin conversions by reducing the partial pressure of the paraffin or by withdrawing the hydrogen produced. As was shown in the previous section, two strategies have been adopted in industry to lower paraffin partial pressure, reducing the pressure below atmospheric (Catofin) or diluting the paraffin feed with steam (STAR process). (26, 30) Hydrogen can be removed from the reaction medium by selective hydrogen combustion (SHC), which involves the addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed to burn off the hydrogen formed during dehydrogenation. Relatively mild oxidants, for example, CO2, are preferred, as the use of strong oxidants, like O2, risks also combusting the hydrocarbon reactants and products. Through this approach, a considerable amount of heat is generated, which promotes the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction. Another method deals with the addition of a solid oxygen carrier (such as ceria) that serves as a source of oxygen for oxidizing the hydrogen formed. The reduced ceria is reoxidized during the regeneration step. (65) Another strategy is to use a membrane permeable to hydrogen to withdraw the latter from the system, thereby shifting the equilibrium toward higher olefin yields. Nevertheless, as the thermal stability of these membranes is limited, this approach is more suited for the dehydrogenation of isobutene. (66-68)
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of paraffins is related to SHC by the fact that an oxidant is also added to the feed, although in ODH the latter is done to directly oxidize the paraffin to the respective olefin. ODH has some advantages that make it a very attractive alternative to nonoxidative dehydrogenation, including the facts that the reaction is exothermic (propane ODH: ΔH2980 = −117 kJ mol–1) and not equilibrium limited. However, a good control of side reactions, such as cracking and the excessive oxidation of reaction products, is very challenging.
4 Overview of Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation Catalyst Materials
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
As mentioned above, two main types of formulations are typically used for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins: noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Although Pt represents the only precious metal that has been extensively studied, various metal oxides have been successfully tested, CrOx being the most prominent example due to its industrial use. Furthermore, promising results have been obtained using gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides. These materials are discussed in detail hereinafter.
4.1 Platinum-Based Catalysts
In the 1960s, a new technology was developed for the synthesis of the long-chain linear olefins used in the production of biodegradable detergents. (26) This new approach was inspired by the well-known bifunctional supported metal catalysts utilized in catalytic reforming, where a noble metal catalyzes hydrogenation and dehydrogenation reactions and the acidic support provides the active sites needed for isomerization, cyclization, and hydrocracking reactions. In contrast, dehydrogenation catalysts are monofunctional, as the acidic function must be minimized to avoid side reactions.
Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic C–H bonds and low activity to C–C cleavage. The first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology, the Pacol process (UOP), was first commercialized in 1968. On the basis of an alumina-supported platinum catalyst, the process greatly contributed to the widespread use of linear olefins in the detergent industry. In the early 1970s, UOP developed the Oleflex process, which was initially applied for the production of butadiene and later extended to propylene.
Figure 9
Figure 9. Structure sensitivity of ethane hydrogenolysis on 1% Pt/SBA-15 with Pt particle size ranging from 1.7 to 7.1 nm. Reprinted with permission from ref. 69, copyright 2005, American Chemical Society.
4.1.1 Nature of the Active Sites
Noble metals are active for dehydrogenation in the metallic state, and in some cases a reduction step is necessary prior to reaction. The dehydrogenation reaction of light alkanes is insensitive to the structure of the platinum particles; that is, such reactions are independent of the platinum particle size or crystallographic plane exposed. As only the amount of active sites is relevant, small particles are preferred. However, undesired side reactions that occur during alkane dehydrogenation, such as hydrogenolysis, isomerization, and coke formation, are sensitive to the structure of the platinum particles, although there is no general consensus regarding the effect of dispersion on the rate of these reactions. Some studies stress the markedly inverse relationship between particle size and the rate of hydrogenolysis (see Figure 9), the latter reaction being one of the main causes of coke formation. (69-72) Contrarily, others believe that for hydrogenolysis to take place, carbon deposits need to be in the vicinity of adsorbed hydrogen, which is more likely to occur on large Pt ensembles than on small particles. (37, 73, 74)
DFT calculations have been utilized to calculate the energy barrier of propane dehydrogenation on flat (111) and stepped (211) Pt crystal planes by Yang et al. (72) Indeed, it was found that step sites are more reactive, as the energy barrier to form propylene is much lower on step sites (24–34 kJ mol–1) than on the flat surface (63–72 kJ mol–1). Nevertheless, propane adsorbs more strongly on the latter, forming propylidyne intermediates believed to serve as precursors for both hydrogenolysis and coke formation. (72, 75)
4.1.2 Catalyst Deactivation
Two main processes cause the deactivation of Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts. First and foremost, the side reactions that form carbon deposits on the catalyst surface lead to the coverage of the active sites with coke, which results in a drop in activity. As it is not possible to completely prevent coke deposition, the catalyst needs to be regenerated frequently by combusting the coke deposits. However, the high temperature of both the regeneration process and the dehydrogenation reaction triggers the agglomeration or sintering of the platinum nanoparticles, the concomitant loss in active sites also resulting in catalyst deactivation. In addition to temperature, the composition of the reaction mixture has a profound influence on the sintering behavior of supported Pt catalysts. As early as 1977, Fiedorow et al. showed that Pt/Al2O3 catalysts more readily sinter in an oxygen-containing atmosphere than in a hydrogen-containing atmosphere at temperatures above 600 °C. (76, 77) A third important factor determining catalyst sintering is the interaction between Pt and the catalyst support. Nagai et al. reported that Pt on Al2O3 readily sinters after treatment in air at 800 °C, while Pt on CeO2 remains stable due to the strong interaction between ceria and Pt. The authors proposed that the strength of the Pt–support interaction depends on the strength of the Pt–O–M bond (where M represents the cation in the support), which in turn shows an excellent correlation with the electron density of the oxygen in the support. As a result, the authors conclude the electron density of oxygen in the support in effect controls the sintering of supported Pt particles. (78)
However, Pt can be redispersed on the catalyst by the addition of low amounts of oxygen and chlorine in the feed at temperatures around 500 °C, although this process can only occur when the interaction between the support and the PtOx and PtOxCly species formed is such that mobile surface complexes are produced. (76, 79-83)
Figure 10
Figure 10. Selectivity to butenes as a function of the number of butane pulses on a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst doped with different amounts of Na (left) and TPO profiles of the spent catalysts (right) showing that Na has a positive effect on the selectivity and that the presence of Na decreases the coke deposition, respectively. Reprinted from ref. 84, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
4.1.3 Role of the Support
Good supports for dehydrogenation of alkanes have to be thermally stable, especially under the harsh hydrothermal conditions that the material experiences during the regeneration step. In addition, limited support acidity is needed to avoid undesirable side reactions, such as coke formation and alkane isomerization. Finally, for an optimal distribution of the metallic particles, a relatively large surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred. (85)
High surface area alumina is the classical support employed in platinum-based dehydrogenation catalysts due to its high thermal stability, mechanical strength, and its exceptional ability of maintaining the platinum nanoparticles dispersed, which is crucial to attain stable catalyst performance. However, most alumina supports are acidic, and therefore promoters are used to curb support acidity. The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10. (84, 86-89) Moreover, these promoters can modify the properties of the platinum and suppress side reactions, such as hydrogenolysis and isomerization, reportedly due to a reduction in the effective size of platinum clusters. (69-72) Zn and Mg have also been used to dope the support, because the resulting spinel phase is less acidic and thermally more stable. These spinels also curtail the sintering of platinum due to a strong metal–support interaction. (90-93) Yet another strategy is to use more stable polymorphs of alumina, such as θ- or α-alumina, because the latter have considerably less Brønsted acid sites relative to γ-alumina, albeit they also tend to have considerably lower surface areas. It is also important to mention that to reach a high dispersion of Pt on the support, Lewis acid sites and amphoteric OH groups are required (which limits the use of SiO2 and basic supports, such as MgO or ZnO). Indeed, by hydrothermally treating γ-Al2O3 prior to impregnation, the formation of additional hydroxyl groups results in a better Pt dispersion after impregnation and calcination. (94)
Zeolites are a commonly used alternative support for dehydrogenation catalysts. Dumesic and co-workers reported Pt–Sn supported on zeolite K-L to be a highly active, selective, and stable catalyst in the selective dehydrogenation of isobutane. (95-98) The authors suggest that in the presence of K, zeolite L can stabilize small Pt–Sn particles in the micropores of the support. In addition, this catalyst shows a high tolerance to coke deposition. This is particularly important as the strong acid sites of zeolites make them very susceptible to coking. (85) Recently, Azzam et al. studied how the structure of zeolite L affected the stability of a Pt/K-L catalyst during the dehydrogenation of propane. (99) Using kinetic isotope experiments, they found no evidence of isotopic scrambling, suggesting that the dehydrogenation reaction was irreversible in this system. Furthermore, the steric restraints of the zeolite structure do not prevent coke formation via bimolecular reactions, in contrast to what was observed for hexane aromatization. (100, 101) Iglesia et al. found Pt supported on Na–[Fe]ZSM-5 zeolites to be highly selective and stable catalysts in the dehydrogenation of light alkanes. (102) These authors claim that the replacement of the framework Al3+ for Fe3+ ions is essential for the Pt precursor to anchor inside the 10-member ring zeolite channels, which in turn is necessary to obtain subnanometric Pt clusters after reduction. The resulting catalyst displays high stability and selectivity toward light olefins, which is explained by the low acidity of the zeolitic support. Further modifications of the catalyst involving the neutralization of the residual acid sites with Cs after Pt reduction improved the selectivity of the catalyst in the dehydrogenation of n-pentane and n-heptane. (103) On the other hand, SBA-15 (a mesoporous silica) was found to be an unsuitable support, as the Pt–Sn nanoparticles readily sinter due to the weak metal–support interaction. (85)
4.1.4 Role of the Promoters
Despite the fact that platinum-based catalysts display very high activity in dehydrogenation reactions, their intrinsic selectivity to alkenes and catalyst stability are not entirely satisfactory. Consequently, the addition of promoters, which are able to modify the catalytic properties of platinum, is necessary to obtain an optimal catalyst. Tin is by far the most studied promoter, and all of the platinum-based catalyst formulations that are industrially applied include this post-transition metal, the addition of which modifies both the platinum active phase and the support. Essentially, Sn suppresses hydrogenolysis and isomerization reactions, minimizes metal sintering, neutralizes the acidity of the support, and facilitates the diffusion of the coke species from the metal surface to the support. Although these beneficial effects of tin promotion are well-known and have been amply described in the literature, the working principles of the Pt–Sn system are still under debate. Indeed, both geometric and electronic effects have been invoked to explain the mechanism through which tin influences the catalytic properties of platinum. In any case, it is clear that SnO2 species present on the catalyst are reduced by the hydrocarbon feed during the dehydrogenation reaction and/or during a prereduction step, yielding a Pt–Sn alloy. The reducibility of SnO2 depends largely on the interaction with the support, strong interaction making the reduction more difficult. However, Pt in close proximity assists with the reduction of Sn. (85)
From the geometric point of view, it has been suggested that isomerization, hydrogenolysis, and the formation of coke precursors can all be suppressed by reducing the size of platinum nanoparticles. (97, 98, 104, 105) Notably, the formation of a platinum–tin alloy and/or the partial covering of the platinum particles by tin species results in the creation of smaller platinum ensembles. Olsbye et al. have suggested that tin selectively covers low coordination platinum sites (such as steps, corners, edges, and defects), which they believe are responsible for the hydrogenolysis reaction. (106, 107) Furthermore, the so-called ensemble effect can be employed to explain the geometric advantages of Sn addition to Pt-based catalysts. Dehydrogenation is believed to be a structure-insensitive reaction, meaning that very small groups or even single Pt atoms can catalyze the reaction. On the other hand, side reactions, such as coking, are structure-sensitive, and require relatively large ensembles of Pt. Pt–Sn alloy formation effectively reduces the amount of neighboring Pt atoms within the ensembles, curbing these structure-sensitive reactions. Moreover, it has been suggested that the sintering of Pt nanoparticles is retarded with the addition of Sn. (107) Additionally, coke precursors prefer to adsorb on large Pt ensembles, and thus the addition of Sn facilitates the migration of these precursors from the Pt–Sn surface to the support, effectively reducing the detrimental effects of coke deposition. (104, 108)
A secondary effect of Sn addition is the modification of the electronic properties of platinum. Alloyed metallic Sn or Sn2+ species in close contact with platinum are able to transfer electrons to the 5d band of platinum atoms, which alters the adsorptive and catalytic properties of the metal. The interaction of promoters with platinum can be assessed by measuring the heat of adsorption of distinct probe molecules through microcalorimetric methods. (109-114) Dumesic et al. performed a thorough adsorption microcalorimetry study and observed that the heat of ethylene and isobutene adsorption decreases with the addition of tin. (115-117) Infrared spectroscopy revealed that during the adsorption of ethylene, tin suppresses the formation of ethylidyne species and weakens the molecular adsorption of ethylene on the platinum surface. Additional DFT calculations explained these experimental results by revealing an increase in the electron density of platinum, which weakens the adsorption of ethylidyne on platinum atoms in close contact with tin. As discussed in section 5.1, ethylidyne is suspected to be an important precursor of coke and hydrogenolysis. Furthermore, DFT calculations described in Figure 28 revealed that Sn promotion significantly reduces the dehydrogenation reaction rate of platinum catalysts, as the energy barrier of the dissociative adsorption of propane is increased. On the other hand, the selectivity is increased as the energy barrier for the desorption of propylene drops, making deep dehydrogenation and cracking reactions less likely. (114, 118, 119) The balance between these two effects results in an optimum ratio of Pt and Sn, which these calculations suggest is Pt3Sn. On the basis of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) observations, Siri et al. reported an increase of the electron density of platinum when tin was incorporated to silica and γ-alumina-supported catalysts. (120) DFT calculations have shown that the addition of Sn also reduces the heat of adsorption of hydrogen on the Pt–Sn (111) surface, which suggests that the diffusion of hydrogen atoms is more facile on the latter than on a Pt (111) surface. (73, 121) Figure 11 illustrates the important role that the electronic modification of Pt by Sn is believed to play in inhibiting coke formation. The left part of the figure shows high energy resolution fluorescence detection X-ray absorption near edge structure (HERFD-XANES) intensity contour maps of the Pt L-edge of catalysts comprising alumina-supported Pt (top) and Pt–Sn (bottom). The right part of the figure shows a graphical interpretation of the XANES spectra, which illustrates the size of the metallic nanoparticles in both catalysts increasing during the regeneration step, an effect that is more severe for Pt/Al2O3. A shift to higher energies in the XANES spectra during the reduction step reveals that Pt becomes more electronegative, which is attributed to the formation of the Pt–Sn alloy. This phenomenon, which is triggered by the partial reduction of the SnO2 present on the support, is reversed during the oxidation step. (122) Sn enrichment of the Pt nanoparticles may be a problem, as the Pt3Sn alloy is believed to be significantly more active for the dehydrogenation reaction than the Pt–Sn alloy. (114, 123) Summarizing, Figure 12 shows an artist impression of a Pt–Sn nanoparticle on alumina.
Figure 11
Figure 11. In the figures to the left, HERFD-XANES intensity contour maps (Pt-L3 edge) of Pt/Al2O3 (top) and Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (bottom) catalysts are shown at different stages of a dehydrogenation experiment. The figures to the right depict the interpretation of Iglesia-Juez et al. for these spectra in terms of changes to the Pt nanoparticles. Reprinted from ref 122, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 12
Figure 12. An artist’s impression of a Pt–Sn nanoparticle within a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst is shown as was discussed in the preceding section. The surface of the alumina is covered with SnO2, which gets reduced when in close proximity to Pt and incorporated into a bimetallic Pt–Sn nanoparticle. Surface Pt atoms catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction according to the mechanism shown in the inset.
Other metals have been studied as promoters of the activity of platinum in the dehydrogenation of alkanes. Most notably, zinc prevents undesired side reaction such as coke formation and isomerization in a fashion similar to that of tin. (124-129) GaOx and InOx dopants are used to hinder side reactions by the poisoning of surface Brønsted acid sites, while the formation of Pt–Ga and Pt–In alloys has both a geometric and an electronic effect on the Pt nanoparticles, decreasing coke deposition further. (130-133) Another alloy that has been investigated is Pt–Ge, which is believed to function in a way analogous to that of Pt–Sn, although the electronic effect is believed to be weaker. (134)
An overview of the Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts discussed above, including relevant reaction parameters, such as conversion, selectivity, temperature, space velocity, and feed composition, is given in Table 3. The activity of the catalysts is compared using their calculated “specific activity”, which is defined as the moles of olefin formed per mol of Pt per second at the start of the dehydrogenation reaction. As mentioned before, the dehydrogenation reaction is insensitive to the structure of the Pt, so all Pt atoms present at the surface of the catalyst nanoparticles can be assumed to participate equally in the dehydrogenation reaction. However, it was not possible to calculate turnover frequency (TOF) due to the fact that Pt dispersion values (the ratio between the Pt at the surface versus the interior of the catalyst nanoparticles) were not forthcoming in most of the references included in Table 3. Finally, as a proxy for catalyst stability, we have determined the deactivation rate (rd), for which we assume a first-order deactivation mechanism: (135)
where Xstart and Xend represent the conversion at the start and the end of an experiment, and t is the duration of the experiment in hours, higher kd values being indicative of rapid deactivation, that is, low stability.
Table 3. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Pt-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 0.1 wt % Pt–Na–[Fe]/ZSM-5 520 WHSV = 15.1; WHSV = 18.1 C3H8 = 25, He = 75; iC4 = 33, H2 = 7, He = 60 33–13 20–10 98.3–99.8 96.5–98.6 1.51; 1.08 0.0080; 0.0041 166 102
(2) 2 wt % Pt–1 wt % Sn/CeO2/C 520 WHSV = 24.8 iC4 = 33, H2 = 7, He = 60 37–20 90–100 1.27 × 10–1 0.0051 140 135
(3) 0.35 wt % Pt–1.26 wt % Sn/Al2O3 519 WHSV = 3.5 C3H8 = 30 kPa, N2 = 70 31–20 95–98 1.09 × 10–1 0.29 5 136
(4) 0.5 wt % Pt–0.6 wt % Sn/MgAl2O4 550 WHSV = 36.6 C3H8 = 50, H2 = 50 12–11 92–95 4.97 × 10–1 0.028 3.5 137
(5) 0.6 wt % Pt–5 wt % Ga/MgAl2O4 605 WHSV = 3.9 C3H8 = 73, H2 = 27 31–30 97–98 1.76 × 10–1 0.024 2 138
(6) 0.5 wt % Pt/Zn/Silicalite 555 WHSV = 2.8 C3H8 = 95, C2H6 = 4.5, iC4H8 = 0.5 27–25 99–100 1.75 × 10–1 0.0010 100 139
(7) 0.58 wt % Pt–Sn/K-L 600 WHSV = 13.2 iC4 = 33, H2 = 67 61–46 92–99.8 3.94 × 10–1 0.0048 126 98
(8) 1.0 wt % Pt–Sn/SiO2 500 WHSV = 248 iC4 = 50, H2 = 50 19–15 95–96 2.090 0.14 2 140
(9) 0.5 wt % Pt/Zn-Beta 555 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 100 40–29 55–90 1.41 × 10–1 0.04 12 126
(10) 0.5 wt % Pt–Na/Sn–ZSM-5 590 WHSV = 3 C3H8 = 75, H2 = 25 41.7–39.1 95.3–98 2.20 × 10–1 0.012 9 141
(11) 0.5 wt % Pt–Zn/Na–Y 555 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 100 24.8–15.7 91.6–90.6 1.45 × 10–1 0.048 12 126
(12) 0.5 wt % Pt–Sn–Na/Al-SBA-15 590 WHSV = 3.0 C3H8 = 75, H2 = 25 27.5–12.6 ∼94 1.43 × 10–1 0.024 40 142
(13) 0.9 wt % Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O 600 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 20, H2 = 25, He = 55 16–11.4 99.2 1.13 × 10–2 0.20 2 132
(14) 0.7 wt % Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O 600 WHSV = 2.6 C3H8 = 20, H2 = 25, He = 55 20.4–16.3 98 1.83 × 10–2 0.14 2 133
aValues of conversion and selectivity of the end and start of each catalytic run are shown. From the articles considered, only the best performing catalyst is included.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Pt*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.2 Chromium Oxide-Based Catalysts
Chromium oxide-based catalysts have been one of the most actively investigated formulations since Frey and Huppke first reported the dehydrogenation activity of Cr2O3 in 1933. (143) During the 1940s, catalysts comprising chromia supported on alumina were used by UOP to industrially dehydrogenate butane to produce butene, which were dimerized and hydrogenated to form high-octane aviation fuels. These catalysts have been applied to several processes for the dehydrogenation of light olefins henceforth. (26) Given the industrial relevance of formulations comprising chromium oxide, their structure under different reaction conditions, the nature of the active sites, the role of the support, the effect of alkali metals promoters, and the mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction over these catalysts have all been intensively studied.
4.2.1 Nature of the Active Sites
Because the adsorption of paraffin molecules takes place on Cr–O sites, understanding the exact nature of these species under dehydrogenation reaction conditions is critically important. (144) On freshly prepared catalysts a number of surface species, including Cr6+, Cr5+, Cr3+ and Cr2+, have been identified. Furthermore, chromates, polychromates, crystalline α-chromia and amorphous chromia have been identified through a variety of techniques. (145-148) The relative concentration of these species seems to be dependent on a number of factors, such as chromium loading (relative to the surface area), the calcination treatment used during catalyst preparation, and the support employed. This is illustrated in Figure 13, where chromium species deposited on SBA-15 (a mesoporous silica) and alumina are compared by Raman spectroscopy. Different species are observed depending on the Cr loading: at low loadings isolated CrO42– species predominate, while at higher concentrations Cr–O–Cr species become prevalent due to the formation of Cr2O3 crystallites. These crystallites are more readily formed on SBA-15 than on alumina, as the interaction between chromium oxide and SBA-15 is relatively weak.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Graphs represent Raman spectra of x wt % CrOx/SBA-15 and CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts (x: a = 0.5, b = 1, c = 5, d = 10). Bands attributed to CrO42– and Cr–O–Cr species are observed at different loadings and correspond with isolated Cr atoms and crystalline Cr2O3. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 14
Figure 14. In situ XANES spectra of the Cr K-edge of the 5 wt % catalysts after oxidative pretreatment (−), after 90 s of dehydrogenation (black - - -), after 15 min of PDH (gray – – −), and after regeneration (gray −). Notably, the Cr6+ species present on the catalyst are reduced to Cr3+ species in the first 90 s of the reaction. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Graph to the left shows in situ diffuse reflectance spectra obtained during the dehydrogenation of propane on a CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst. In the right set of graphs, the relative change of bands (B–D) corresponding to Cr3+ and Cr6+ is shown. Both graphs illustrate that Cr3+ (band at 700 nm) is formed at the expense of Cr6+ (bands at 260 and 370 nm) during PDH. Reprinted from ref 150, copyright 2011, with permission from Elsevier.
Prior to the 1990s, the study of the structure of chromium oxide-based dehydrogenation catalysts had been restricted to conditions far removed from those found under real operation. For this catalytic system, this represented a great limitation, as the reaction mixtures are believed to reduce chromium oxide species. The development of in situ spectroscopic techniques made it possible to probe these catalysts under reaction conditions. As is shown in Figure 14 with XANES and in Figure 15 with UV–vis spectroscopy, it was observed that surface Cr3+ species are produced at the expense of Cr6+ species during the initial stages of the dehydrogenation reaction and that polychromate is more easily reduced than monochromate. (151-153) Consequently, Cr3+, coordinatively unsaturated Cr2+, as well as a mixture of both Cr3+ and Cr2+ have been all proposed as the active sites for dehydrogenation reactions. (154-157) Cr6+ or Cr5+ have not been observed to be active for the dehydrogenation reaction, albeit Cr6+/Cr5+ species do appear to be the precursor of active Cr3+ sites. This has been assigned to the fact that reduction of Cr5+ species leads to the formation of monomeric Cr3+ active sites. Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes. (150, 158-161)
With respect to coordination, it appears that Cr3+ sites need to be coordinatively unsaturated to show catalytic activity. (162) Indeed, a semiquantitative relationship has been found between the amount of pseudo-octahedral Cr3+ formed during reduction and the dehydrogenation activity shown by the catalyst. (152, 153) Furthermore, it has been observed that isolated Cr3+ species with two coordinative vacancies are formed on CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts in the presence of an alkane. Thus, it appears that these catalysts contain coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ under reaction conditions. Experiments performed with Cr loadings above monolayer coverage, which have been shown to include crystalline chromia clusters, suggest that bulk Cr3+ ions in a perfect octahedral environment are inactive toward alkane dehydrogenation. Admittedly, these fully coordinated Cr3+ species are highly stable, whereas coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species would try to attain the stability of bulk Cr3+ ions by adsorbing alkane molecules from the gas phase.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Yield of butenes at 540 °C over a chromia–alumina catalyst as a function of Cr loading. Activity increases linearly with Cr loading, even above monolayer coverage. However, the yield drops once Cr2O3 crystallites start being detected via XRD. Reprinted from ref 163, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
With respect to nuclearity, the need for a highly dispersed active phase is highlighted by the fact that, while activity first rises with increasing chromium loading, a drop in activity is observed when the loading is such that crystalline Cr2O3 starts forming, as illustrated in Figure 16. (163-165) The fact that activity and Cr loading hold an almost linear relationship below monolayer coverage suggests that both isolated and clustered Cr3+ centers are catalytically active. Actually, three different types of Cr3+ ions have been spectroscopically detected at these loadings: (1) Cr3+ species formed by reduction of surface Cr6+/Cr5+ ions; (2) isolated centers of Cr3+ ions stabilized by the alumina surface; and (3) small amorphous (and thus XRD invisible) Cr3+ clusters. (29, 49) Determining the individual contributions of these species to catalytic performance has proven to be extremely challenging. Some studies correlating dehydrogenation activity with Cr-speciation suggested that a vast majority of catalytic activity can be ascribed to the dispersed Cr3+ phase, the role of the other phases being the replenishment of the depleted Cr3+ surface phase during long runs. (152, 153, 166) More detailed studies involving the calculation of turnover frequencies (TOF) have led some workers to propose that multinuclear Cr3+ sites are more active than isolated Cr3+ ions, a proposition that finds both support and dissent in the literature. (147, 160, 163, 167-169) Kumar et al. observed that when γ-alumina was employed as the catalyst support, oligomeric chromium oxide species would display the highest activity and selectivity. However, when SBA-15 was used as the carrier, isolated chromia species with coordination number larger than 4 showed the highest activity. (149) It is clear that the optimal nuclearity of active Cr3+ sites remains a topic still under debate.
Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time. (170) At first, the selectivity toward alkenes is fairly low and the catalyst produces mainly carbon oxides, as is shown in Figure 17. This is attributed to the fact that during this induction period, highly oxidized, and thus catalytically inactive, chromium species are being reduced to active chromium species with lower oxidation states. Eventually, a high selectivity of 93.6% can be reached at a conversion of 55%. (29)
To summarize, in recent years dehydrogenation activity has been mostly assigned to Cr3+ species that are both dispersed and coordinatively unsaturated. Thus, it seems that active sites need to fulfill oxidation state, coordination, and nuclearity requirements. In fact, these and other factors, such as the origin of Cr3+ species, have been used by some workers to classify the catalytically active sites. (171-173)
It should also be mentioned that many other factors could also influence the activity of Cr-based dehydrogenation catalysts. For instance, the addition of CO2 as a mild oxidant is known to improve the activity of chromium dehydrogenation catalysts by removing the evolved hydrogen through the reverse water gas shift reaction, which effectively shifts the equilibrium toward product formation. (174-176) At the same time, CO2 is ineffective at oxidizing catalytically active Cr3+ species to catalytically inactive Cr5+ or Cr6+ species. (150, 177, 178)
To obtain high activity, the operating conditions also need to be considered, because activity is directly proportional to both the reaction temperature and the partial pressure of the alkane. Moreover, alkane conversion has been found to be inversely proportional to space velocity, and selectivity has been found to be directly proportional to alkene selectivity. In studies where Cr/Al2O3 catalysts were used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, it was found that when the space velocity (GHSV) decreased from 3600 to 600 h–1, ethane conversion increased from 27.6% to 31.4%, while selectivity to ethylene decreased from 91.7% to 64.9%. (179) This effect has been attributed to the fact that lower space velocities favor ethane activation as well as methane and coke formation.
In conclusion, it is possible to achieve high activity and selectivity over Cr-based hydrogenation catalysts by adjusting the composition of the catalysts and/or the operating conditions.
Figure 17
Figure 17. To the left, the conversion and selectivity observed in a 86 min period of propane dehydrogenation on a 13 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. Conversion drops over time, while the selectivity remains stable after increasing during the initial stages of the reaction. To the right, the mass uptake of the catalyst as measured by a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) is shown as a function of time-on-stream. Over the first 40 min, the catalyst mass increases due to coke deposition, after which it remains stable. Reproduced from ref 180, with permission from the PCCP Owner Societies.
4.2.2 Catalyst Deactivation
Over the course of a catalytic cycle, CrOx dehydrogenation catalysts lose their activity due to the deposition of coke, and as is the case with Pt-based catalysts, they need to be periodically regenerated. Experiments performed using a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM), shown in Figure 17, revealed that the weight of the catalyst increases during the initial stages (10–40 min) of the reaction, no additional carbon being deposited after this time. However, conversion continues to drop beyond this point, which indicates that the carbon originally deposited becomes more detrimental for the catalytic activity over time. Although the catalysts recover most of their activity after each reaction–regeneration cycle, the loss of activity is not entirely reversible. Indeed, the heat released through the combustion of coke during regeneration leads to the incorporation of chromia into the alumina framework, which causes the amount of catalytically active Cr species to decrease with each regeneration step. (29) This phenomenon has been measured by UV–vis spectroscopy, as shown in Figure 18. In the figure, a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst is treated at 1100 °C for 12 h, which results in the bands corresponding to Cr3+ species to shift, signaling the incorporation of Cr3+ species into the alumina support. Consequently, the dehydrogenation activity shown by the catalyst drops, and an almost linear relationship has been found between activity and the amount of Cr6+ species on the catalyst surface (as measured after the regeneration step). (150, 166, 181)
Figure 18
Figure 18. Top graph shows the ex situ diffuse reflectance UV–vis spectra of both fresh and deactivated CrOx/Al2O3. The bottom left graph shows the extent of the shift for the bands at 600 and 450 nm, which correspond to the first and second d–d transitions, respectively. The bottom right graph shows that the fraction of Cr3+ incorporated into the alumina framework is strongly dependent on the calcination temperature. Reprinted from ref 49 (top graph), copyright 2004, and ref 172 (bottom two graphs), copyright 2002, both with permission from Elsevier.
Two processes are believed to lead to the dissolution of Cr3+ into the Al2O3 carrier and result in catalytically inactive Cr3+ species. First, the sintering of the alumina may cause entrapment of the Cr species inside the bulk of the support. As an additional effect, the loss of alumina surface area reduces the ability of the support to stabilize Cr6+ species formed during the regeneration step. (154, 182) Consequently, Cr3+ ions migrate into the support. Indeed, it is believed that the similar ionic radii and charge of Al3+ and Cr3+ facilitate the diffusion and subsequent incorporation of Cr3+ into the octahedral sites of alumina, which produces a type of chromia–alumina spinel that is inactive for the dehydrogenation reaction. (145, 183) Of note is the fact that in the presence of γ-alumina, entrapment is believed to be the dominant process, while in its absence migration is favored. (145, 183)
At elevated temperatures, γ-alumina undergoes a thermodynamically driven transformation to θ- or even α-alumina, which coincides with a considerable loss in surface area. It is unknown whether the presence of chromia facilitates or hinders the sintering of the alumina support, as some authors have found the presence of chromia to enhance sintering, while other research groups have observed the opposite. (172, 184-186) The transformation of γ-alumina to α-alumina can be restrained by doping the support with silica, zirconia, magnesia, or lanthana. For example, Wachowski et al. observed that when a small amount of La2O3 is added to Al2O3, the transition of θ-alumina to α-alumina occurs at a temperature 136 °C higher relative to when no lanthana is added. (187, 188) The authors found that the use of cations having ionic radius larger than Al3+, which tend not to dissolve in Al2O3, in combination with a preparation method capable of affording high dopant dispersion, is most effective in preventing the formation of α-alumina.
It is important to note that the advantages offered by the combustion of coke during the regeneration step far outweigh these unwanted side effects. First and foremost, the heat released in this step is harnessed to fuel the dehydrogenation reaction, making coke deposition not completely undesirable. Furthermore, oxidation of Cr3+ to Cr6+ during regeneration also accomplishes the redispersion of chromia crystallites. The latter is particularly important, given that the sintering of chromia under dehydrogenation conditions has also been reported to be a contributing factor to the reversible deactivation of chromium-based catalysts. (171, 172)
Another interesting example of a deactivation phenomenon caused by a change in surface composition related to the nature of the support has been observed on catalysts comprising mesoporous silica as carrier. Indeed, by analyzing this material via XPS before and after 6 h of time-on-stream, an important amount of Cr3+ species was found to be reduced to Cr2+ by the hydrogen evolved during the anoxic dehydrogenation reaction. In turn, the resulting Cr2+ species were found to be inactive in dehydrogenation.
4.2.3 Role of the Support
The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity. Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromia–alumina catalysts have been investigated. These include the incipient wetness impregnation of alumina with CrO3 or Cr(NO3)3 solutions (if an alkali ion is added, an aqueous solution of its chromate salt is used), the coprecipitation of Al(OH)3 and Cr(OH)3 from Al3+ and Cr3+ solutions, a type of chemical vapor deposition (CVD) involving volatile chromium compounds being deposited on alumina called “atomic layer deposition”, and the decomposition of complexes including both alumina and chromium. All of these methods are followed by a calcination step at approximately 600 °C. Increasing the calcination temperature above 600 °C causes a loss of dehydrogenation activity, probably due to the incorporation of Cr into the Al2O3 framework, as discussed in the preceding section. (182) Very recently, an interesting synthesis strategy for preparing a mesoporous CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst by using a Cr-containing metal–organic-framework filled with an alumina precursor and subsequently combusting the organic material was reported. The resulting catalyst shows excellent thermal stability and is very active for isobutene dehydrogenation. (189) Interestingly, increasing the pretreatment temperature of the alumina support has a positive effect on the TOF shown by the resulting catalyst, which has been attributed to an increase in the number of multinuclear Cr3+ sites. (172) In addition, this pretreatment will result in a more stable Al2O3 polymorph, which is less likely to sinter. However, the use of alumina as support is not free of drawbacks. For instance, Al2O3 can catalyze cracking and coking due to its surface acidity, which leads to a drop in both activity and selectivity. A solution for this is the doping of alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions, which can effectively poison these undesirable acid sites.
The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated. Indeed, the low surface acidity of this oxide and the fact that chromia imparts an enhanced sintering resistance to ZrO2 make the latter a viable substitute for alumina. (159, 160) De Rossi et al. have reported that catalysts with zirconia as the support are more active in the dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane than the corresponding catalysts supported on silica or alumina. (167, 168, 181, 190) This has been attributed to an increase in the amount of surface Cr5+ that is produced during the regeneration of Cr2O3/ZrO2. The latter improves activity because Cr5+ forms catalytically active mononuclear Cr3+ under reaction conditions, as has already been mentioned. In turn, the high amount of Cr5+ on this catalyst has been attributed to the strong interaction between chromia and the basic support. (170) The choice of zirconia over alumina as the catalyst support offers the additional advantage of preventing the formation of Cr–Al mixed oxides. Nevertheless, Cr2O3/ZrO2 has been observed to deactivate faster than other less active catalysts including Cr2O3/Al2O3, which has been partially imputed to the higher coking rate displayed by Cr2O3/ZrO2. Additionally, XPS studies suggest that chromia–zirconia catalysts also favor the formation of chromium carbides, which are inactive in dehydrogenation and consequently cause catalyst deactivation. (170)
De Rossi and co-workers have also concluded that albeit Cr/ZrO2 catalysts can outperform their alumina- and silica-supported counterparts, zirconia-supported formulations could be further improved by increasing the surface area and the thermal stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2. This has inspired other workers to produce chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts with high surface areas and highly dispersed active sites. For example, Fujdala and Tilley have reported the use of a cothermolysis method involving several thermolytic molecular precursors to produce a Cr/Si/Zr/O catalyst capable of showing propane conversions greater than 35% and propylene selectivities exceeding 90% at 450 °C. (191) According to the authors, the aforementioned values are among the best reported in the literature, particularly at such a low temperature. Korhonen et al. attempted to combine the high surface area of alumina with the basic nature of zirconia by covering an alumina support with a zirconia layer. (192) However, the resulting CrOx/Al2O3–ZrO2 catalyst displayed inferior activity as compared to the benchmark CrOx/ZrO2 catalyst.
The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. (193) Surface area considerations also explain the fact that titania does not constitute a good support, as CrOx easily sinters due to its weak interaction with TiO2. However, an active and stable propane dehydrogenation catalyst has been obtained by preparing a titania mesoporous material with Cr dopants. (177)
Figure 19
Figure 19. TPR profiles of 6 wt % CrOx on different supports. The catalysts with a strong reduction peak at low temperatures show the highest catalytic activity. The figure is reproduced from ref. 179 with kind permission from Springer Science and Business Media.
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) results suggest that there is a direct relationship between catalytic activity and the reducibility of the catalysts (see Figure 19). (179) Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41 ≫ CrOx/MgO ≈ CrOx/Si-2 (Si-2 is the abbreviation of silicalite-2 zeolite, which has been described as a silica analogue of the aluminosilicate zeolite ZSM-11 (194)), a reverse order being found for the reduction temperature of the chromium species on the aforementioned catalyst supports.
Cr–Mg–Al and Cr–Mg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. (195) Some of these catalysts were found to achieve ethane conversions of 27–30% and selectivity toward ethylene of 71–75%. The method used for introducing Cr into the LDH precursors was found to determine several properties of the resulting mixed oxides, such as surface area, catalytic performance, coking resistance, and thermal stability against sintering.
Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane, catalysts based on these materials display an initial conversion of 18.1% with a selectivity toward propylene of 87.1% at 550 °C. (162) Interestingly, it has been observed that while the selectivity of this material toward cracking decreases with time-on-stream, its selectivity toward the alkene tends to remain constant. The latter has been explained by assigning the occurrence of cracking and dehydrogenation reactions to strong and medium strength acid sites, respectively. The authors argue that strong acid sites are rapidly deactivated, inhibiting cracking reactions and favoring the production of the alkene.
4.2.4 Role of the Promoters
Alkali metals, such as K, Rb, and Cs, are known to promote both the activity and the selectivity of chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts. This phenomenon has been attributed to the ability of large alkali cations to stabilize the structure of the support, to reduce surface acidity, and/or to increase the number of active chromium sites. (154, 189) Additionally, the presence of alkali metal promoters increases the dispersion of the active phase by assisting the formation under oxidizing conditions of Cr6+ complexes that subsequently give rise to Cr3+ under a reducing atmosphere.
A notable exception to this promotion effect has been found in the doping with K+ of several PDH catalysts, such as chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, gallium–chromium mixed oxides pillared α-zirconium phosphate, and chromia/zirconia. (162, 196) For these materials, doping with K+ results in a dramatic decrease in catalytic activity. According to some authors, this indicates that oxygen ions play an active role in the dissociative adsorption of propane and/or in the desorption of hydrogen. Indeed, these workers contend that in these catalysts, potassium forms bonds with oxygen anions, which causes some properties, such as the Lewis acidity and the coordinative unsaturation of the latter, to be altered in a way that hinders catalysis. (181, 190) A similar argument has been used to explain the drop in activity observed when doping chromia/zirconia catalysts with sodium, although this effect has not been observed for alumina-based formulations.
Figure 20
Figure 20. An artist’s impression of the surface of a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst in which coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction. Note that partially reduced CrOx species are formed on the surface of the catalyst, and that the Cr is partially dissolved in the alumina support. The (simplified) reaction mechanism is shown in the inset.
An artist’s impression of a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst is shown in Figure 20, while Table 4 offers an overview of the different CrOx catalysts used for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins, as discussed in the previous section. As was the case in Table 3, in Tables 4–9 the activity of the catalysts is compared using their “specific activity”, as calculated according to the definition accompanying each table. The use of TOF was precluded by the fact that in oxide-based catalysts there exists a wide array of active species (e.g., monomers, oligomers, polymers, and crystalline species) exhibiting different degrees of catalytic activity and accessibility (some of these species are in the bulk as opposed to on the surface), which makes the determination of the actual number of active sites impossible.
Table 4. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Cr-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discussed
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)a selectivity (%)a specific activity (s–1)b kd (h–1) catalyst lifec (h) ref
(1) mesoporous 9 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 580   C3H8 = 5, He = 95 15.7–10.0 98   0.52 1 197
(2) mixed oxide 40% Cr2O3/60% Al2O3 588 ± 2 WHSV = 3.3 iC4H10 = 100 ∼23–14 99.4 6.87 × 10–4 0.48 1.25 154
(3) 73 wt % Cr2O3-pillared α-ZrP 550 WHSV = 1.7 C3H8 = 7, He = 93 18.1–6.3 87.1 1.23 × 10–5 0.24 5 162
(4) Ga–Cr mixed oxide on α-ZrP (20.1 wt % Cr, 9.3 wt % Ga) 550 WHSV = 2 C3H8 = 7, He = 93 27.6–4.4 80 5.05 × 10–5 0.42 5 196
(5) 14–16 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 540 WHSV = 46.6 iC4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 16 (start first cycle), 8 (30th cycle) 98 ± 1 1.21 × 10–3 0.026 30 163
(6) 5 wt % CrOx/SBA-1 550 WHSV = 1.2 C3H8 = 6.67, CO2 = 33.3, He = 60 37–26 85–92 1.66 × 10–4 0.14 3.75 165
(7) 4 wt % CrOx/ZrO2 550 WHSV = 0.3 C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 60.9–24.3 76.2–87.0 2.86 × 10–5 0.26 6 170
(8) (1 wt % Cr) Cr–Si–Zr Xerogel 450 WHSV = 0.86 C3H8 = 1.9, N2 = 0.2, He = 97.1 37.8–22.7 (35 and 400 m) 91.1–94.7 1.85 × 10–4 0.12 6.08 191
(9) Cr(2)Mg(12)Al(4)Ox (mixed metal oxide) 700 WHSV = 3.2 C2H6 = 28.6, N2 = 71.4 29.6 71 6.54 × 10–4   1 195
(10) 5 wt % Cr, 10 wt % Ce/SBA-15 700 GHSV = 3600 C2H6 = 25, CO2 = 75 55–46 96–97   0.059 5 175
(11) 20 wt % Cr, 1 wt % Na/Al2O3 550 WHSV = 0.12 C3H8 = 10, N2 = 90 47–37 80–89 7.41 × 10–6 0.069 6 198
aFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
bSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Cr*t(s)).
cCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.3 Vanadium Oxide-Based Catalysts
Despite the excellent performance of Pt and CrOx catalysts in paraffin dehydrogenation, a number of issues including catalyst poisoning, the high cost of Pt, and environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr have spurred the search for alternatives. Vanadium oxides are known to be active for many hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including dehydrogenation. Research on vanadium-based dehydrogenation catalysts started in the 1980s, although at that time the focus was on oxidative dehydrogenation using vanadium–magnesium mixed oxides. (199, 200)
The nature of the vanadium present on the catalyst depends to a large extent on the type of carrier, the support surface area, the metal loading, and the oxidation state of vanadium. (201) Far below the theoretical monolayer coverage isolated vanadium species are present, at intermediate surface coverage polymeric species or sheets of vanadium oxide are favored, and above monolayer coverage V2O5 crystallites become dominant. Therefore, a combination of V–O-support, V–O–V, or V═O moieties may be obtained, each having different catalytic activity. In addition, depending on the support, mixed oxides with Al, Zr, Ti, or Mg may be formed.
The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings. On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as −OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation. A schematic display of these vanadium species is shown in Figure 21. (202)
Figure 21
Figure 21. Various vanadium oxide species present on a catalyst support (S): isolated vanadium oxide species (a), dimers (b), two-dimensional chains of vanadium oxide species (c), and V2O5 crystallites (d). Reprinted from ref 201, copyright 2003, with permission from Elsevier.
Several authors claim that two-dimensional polymeric V3+ or V4+ species are the most active for dehydrogenation, (203-206) the vanadium species bonded directly with the γ/θ-alumina support being the most active sites in PDH. Isolated vanadium species are also active, albeit they are susceptible to deactivation due to coke formation. On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation. (30, 206)
Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. (207-209) The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, V–O–V and V═O bonds being more easily reduced than V–O-support bonds. Harlin et al. studied the effects of vanadium oxide reduction with H2, CO, and CH4 prior to the dehydrogenation reaction. In all cases, the reduction was incomplete, and yielded a mix of vanadium oxide species, including V3+, V4+, and V5+ (see Figure 22). Higher initial catalytic activities were obtained in all cases, although the effect was strongest after reduction with CO. The authors suggested that when the catalyst was reduced with H2 and CH4, detrimental −OH groups were formed. V4+ was determined to be the most active species in butane dehydrogenation.
Figure 22
Figure 22. Vanadium 2p3/2 XPS spectra of a VOx/Al2O3 catalyst calcined (top) and reduced with CO (bottom). Reduction yields a mixture of V5+, V4+, and V3+. Reprinted from ref 207, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active. (206) V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 °C. (210)
In several studies, CO2 is added to the feed as a mild oxidant to increase alkene yields. (211-213) Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse water–gas shift reaction. Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion. When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites. This increases the acidity of the support, which in turn increases coke formation and lowers selectivity. If these basic sites are absent, as in the case of SiO2, no beneficial effects of CO2 are observed.
Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity. (214) Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation. (208)
An overview of the different VOx catalysts used for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes is shown in Table 5.
Table 5. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the V-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 2.2 wt % VOx/γ-Al2O3 520 WHSV = 2.6, N2 = 90 nC4H10 = 10 11–3 55–76 (to all butene isomers) 1.75 × 10–4 1.04 1.33 202
(2) 3.5 wt % VOx/θ-Al2O3 600 GHSV = 14 400 nC4H10 = 100 32.9–8.5 (15–60 m) 56.1 (all butene isomers)   2.22 1 205
(3) 5.2 wt % VOx/Al2O3c 580 WHSV = 5 i-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 62–38 65–85 (to i-butene) 9.46 × 10–4 11.5 0.085 207
(4) 4.9 wt % VOx–4.7 wt % Mg/Al2O3e 580 WHSV = 5 i-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 44–36; 54–35 85–90 77–88 (to i-butene) 9.32 × 10–4; 9.40 × 10–4 1.34; 3.12 0.25 208
(5) 5.4 wt % VOx–4.5 wt % Zr/Al2O3e
(6) 4 wt % V–36 wt % MgOx/Cact 600 WHSV = 1.9 i-C4H10 = 14.3, CO2 = 85.7 45.5–26.5 76.4–85.0 5.77 × 10–4 0.72 1.17 212
(7) 3.5 wt % VOx/Al2O3 600 GHSV = 72 (at a pressure of 0.5 bar) C4H10 = 3, N2 = 97 70–15 12–30 to 1- and 1–3 butene   0.86 3 215
aAs some of these catalysts require an activation period, the maximum (as opposed by the initial) conversion is considered to determine the deactivation rate.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Cr*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
eCatalyst is prereduced by CO prior to the dehydrogenation reaction.
4.4 Molybdenum Oxide-Based Catalysts
Molybdenum oxides are also frequently used as catalysts in hydrocarbon conversion reactions, including dehydrogenation. To our knowledge, the first report of the dehydrogenation activity of a molybdenum oxide-based catalyst was of MoO3/Al2O3 in the dehydrocyclization of n-heptane, which was published in 1946. (216) Since that first report, the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes on MoOx has been studied scarcely, as emphasis has been given to the study of oxidative dehydrogenation on these materials.
The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. (217)
Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support. In the fresh catalyst, molybdenum is present as Mo6+, but analogously to catalysts comprising vanadium and chromium oxide, MoO3 is reduced by the hydrocarbon feed during reaction to create the active species. (218) These reduced sites are believed to be Mo4+ and Mo5+. Further reduction results in sites that are more active, but the latter catalyze cracking and deactivate fast due to coke deposition. In fact, at loadings above monolayer coverage, the catalyst is more easily reduced, which results in a drop in catalyst activity. (218, 219) The same authors also point out that such a catalyst deactivates due to the formation of catalytically inactive Al2(MoO4)3 crystallites. To prevent the formation of this mixed oxide, they added magnesium oxide to obtain a molybdenum–magnesium mixed oxide that also shows dehydrogenation activity. It was found that an additional beneficial effect of magnesia addition is that the resulting mixed oxide has lower acidity, which increases alkene selectivity and reduces coke deposition. The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites. (220) Overall, MoO3 catalysts deactivate rapidly due to coking and generally afford a relatively low conversion and selectivity.
Figure 23
Figure 23. Yield of different carbon molecules during butane dehydrogenation on a MoOxCy catalyst at different steam partial pressures. When no steam is added, the selectivity to C4 alkenes drops rapidly and the methane yield reaches 100% after 5 h. The hydrogenolysis reaction is suppressed when steam is added to the feed. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
The formation of molybdenum oxycarbides (MoOxCy) has been reported to occur during butane dehydrogenation on unsupported molybdenum oxide. These materials are also active in the dehydrogenation of paraffins, and a high activity close to the thermodynamic equilibrium is initially obtained, although over a period of a few hours the selectivity drops to zero and the reaction yields only methane, as shown in Figure 23. During this period, the oxycarbide becomes depleted from oxygen and a wide range of carbides active in hydrogenolysis are formed. (222) To improve the stability of the oxide, steam can be added to the feed (which hampers the growth of these carbides) or the catalyst can be doped with vanadium (which increases the oxophilicity of the catalyst). X-ray diffractograms showing this transition are shown in Figure 24. However, the introduction of steam is not free of drawbacks, as it induces sintering. Hydrogen addition prevents coke formation and increases conversion, albeit it is believed that H2 competitively adsorbs on the active sites of the catalyst. (221-223)
Figure 24
Figure 24. XRD diffractograms of the fresh Mo oxycarbide catalyst before dehydrogenation, but after pretreatment (top left), as well as after dehydrogenation reaction with no steam (top right), with 5 Torr of steam (bottom left), and with 18 Torr of steam (bottom right). In the absence of steam, the well-defined MoO2 and MoOxCy species disappear during reaction and are replaced by more amorphous MoOxCy species, which are enriched with carbon and presumably responsible for hydrogenolysis. The addition of steam prevents this transformation and with 18 Torr of steam, MoO2 and ordered MoOxCy species are still observed on the spent catalysts. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Consistent with the fact that MoOxCy is a catalyst active in butane dehydrogenation, Harlin et al. showed that MoO3 deposited on SiC displays significant catalytic properties when hydrogen and steam are present in the feed. (224) As compared to bulk MoO3 and MoO3 supported on SiO2 and Al2O3, higher selectivities and stability are obtained over MoO3/SiC, albeit at the cost of a lower conversion. This was explained by the increased reducibility of MoO3/SiC as compared to the MoO3/Al2O3 catalyst. A summary of the Mo-based catalysts used for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins is shown in Table 6.
Table 6. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Molybdenum Oxide-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 13.4 wt % MoO3/Al2O3 560 WHSV = 2 n-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90 21–18 (second min 25) 50 7.21 × 10–5 2.78 0.17 218
(2) 12.8 wt % MoO3–8.4 wt % Mg/Al2O3 13–11 82 7.66 × 10–5 1.12
(3) MoO3 550 WHSV = 2 n-C4H10 = 9.3, N2 = 83.9, H2O = 6.8 42–8 55–84 2.96 × 10–5 0.28 7.5 221
(4) 14.2 wt % MoOx/SiC 560 WHSV = 2 n-C4H10 = 10, N2 = 90, H2O = 3.1 22–17 38–71 5.41 × 10–5 0.32 1 224
aAs some of these catalysts require an activation period, the maximum (as opposed to the initial) conversion is considered to determine the deactivation rate.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Mo*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.5 Gallium Oxide-Based Catalysts
The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years. (225-228) In the interim, both bulk and supported Ga2O3 have been used as dehydrogenation catalysts.
The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors. (229) β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity. (230) Indeed, a heterolytic dissociation reaction mechanism has been proposed where H– adsorbs on a Ga+ Lewis acid site and C3H7+ on a neighboring oxygen, although these species can also be adsorbed reversed. (33, 231) The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., (232) who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10–xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity (see Figure 25). Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brønsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst. (233, 234) In addition, Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity. (235)
Figure 25
Figure 25. Concentration of Lewis acid sites versus propane conversion measured 15 min after the start of the PDH reaction on GaxAl10–xO15. A clear correlation between the conversion and the surface density of weak Lewis acid sites is observed. For these experiments, CO2 is used to improve conversion. Reprinted from ref 232, copyright 2008, with permission from Elsevier.
Several authors have performed DFT calculations in an effort to understand the dehydrogenation reaction mechanism on Ga2O3. Studies by Liu et al. regarding propane dehydrogenation on a perfect Ga2O3 (100) surface revealed that the C–H bond is activated by a surface oxygen that abstracts an hydrogen from the propane molecule, thus forming a propyl species, which coordinates with a Ga surface site and a hydroxyl group. A second hydroxyl group is formed via β-hydrogen elimination, but for these hydroxyl groups to recombine, either as H2O or as H2, a high energy barrier needs to be overcome. This barrier is much lower over a gallium hydride–hydroxide species, although the formation of the gallium hydride also involves a high energy barrier. Nevertheless, theoretical calculations by Pidko et al. indicate that these relatively stable [H–Ga–OH]+ sites are preferentially regenerated by water desorption resulting in a reduced active site. (236) Murata and co-workers have observed an increase in activity after a prereduction step with hydrogen at 550 °C, while a simultaneous increase of Gaδ+H and Ga–OH sites was observed via NH3 TPD. These authors proposed that these sites also form during reaction and may be responsible for the dehydrogenation activity of the silica supported Ga2O3 catalyst. (237, 238)
Contradictory information has been reported regarding the reducibility of Ga2O3. Rodriguez et al. reported that Ga2O3/Al2O3 is not reduced by hydrogen at 700 °C, but the presence of Pd on the catalyst can assist the reduction of Ga3+ to Ga+ and Ga0 at temperatures between 300 and 550 °C and form an alloy (in which Ga0 is immobilized). Indeed, it has been reported that the reduction of Ga2O3 can be promoted by the proximity of other, more easily reduced metals, such as Pt and Pd. (131-133, 238) For instance, on a Pt–Ga/H-beta catalyst, reduced gallium hydrides were observed after hydrogen reduction at 550 °C. (239) It has also been proposed that the reducibility of these species depends on the interaction of gallium oxide with the catalyst support, which is also the case with CrOx (vide supra), where a weak metal–support interaction results in an increased reducibility. Indeed, Meitzner et al. showed that Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5 could be reduced by hydrogen or hydrocarbons at dehydrogenation reaction conditions. Finally, regarding the reduction of Ga2O3, it is important to note that Ga2O is gaseous and metallic gallium is liquid at dehydrogenation reaction conditions. (240)
A number of studies have shown that the addition of CO2 to the reactant feed improves the olefin yield. (241-245) Nakagawa et al. found that the addition of steam and CO2 decreased coke deposition on a Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst by the Boudouart reaction, while also assisting ethylene desorption. (241, 242) However, other authors claimed that the increase in activity was caused by the reverse water–gas shift reaction (RWGS). (243, 244) Additionally, Michorczyk et al. noted that this effect could only be seen at relative low levels of coke deposition. (235) It was suggested that CO2 could also poison the basic sites required for the dissociative adsorption of the alkane. Additionally, Hensen et al. studied the promoting effect of water with experiments and theory and observed an increase in the conversion of propane by cofeeding water. (246) The authors attributed this promoting effect to the formation of partially hydrolyzed gallium species, more specifically, to the formation of binuclear hydroxyl-bridged Ga3+ cations.
Different carriers have been used in gallium oxide-based dehydrogenation catalysts, the inclusion of acid and basic sites on the support being important to achieve a high conversion. Xu et al. reported that in the absence of an oxidizing agent, the conversion obtained using Ga2O3 supported on ZrO2, Al2O3, and TiO2 was high, medium, and low, respectively, while SiO2 and MgO-supported Ga2O3 were inactive in alkane dehydrogenation. (233) The authors proposed the activity to be dependent on the presence of acid sites of medium strength on the catalyst surface. However, a different trend was observed when CO2 was present, as conversion was observed to be high on Ga2O3/TiO2 and low on Ga2O3/ZrO2 and Ga2O3/Al2O3. This was attributed to the two contrary roles of CO2, which on the one hand removes H2 from the surface of the catalyst by the reverse water–gas shift reaction, while on the other hand absorbs strongly on the basic sites of the support. Thus, the low conversion observed when zirconia or alumina were employed as the support can be ascribed to the relatively high amount of basic sites on these oxides. Notably, the structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous Ga–Al mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking. (245)
Work on the promotion of GaOx-based dehydrogenation catalysts appears to be limited, although a patent by Iezzi et al. claims that a catalyst comprising 1.2 wt % Ga2O3, <99 ppm of Pt, and 1.6 wt % of SiO2 on an Al2O3 support represents a highly active formulation in the dehydrogenation reaction. (247) Indeed, when this catalyst is used for PDH, a conversion of 39% and a selectivity of 85% can be obtained after 150 h of time-on-stream at 580 °C, with frequent regenerations at 650 °C. These values are the highest among those reported for Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts. However, which metal, Pt or Ga, is predominately responsible for the high activity of this catalyst, is not discussed.
In recent work by Sattler et al., a 3 wt % Ga/Al2O3 catalyst was promoted with 1000 ppm of Pt and 0.25 wt % of K to obtain a highly active, selective, and stable PDH catalyst. (248) Evidently, the function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brønsted acid sites. However, Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%. In the absence of Pt, propane conversion is more than halved. It was suggested that the role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species. The catalytic data on the Ga-based formulations discussed above are summarized in Table 7.
Table 7. Summary of the Catalytic Data of Gallium Oxide-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) 1.7 wt % Ga2O3/SiO2 550 WHSV = 0.97 h–1 C3H8 = 10, Ar = 90 23–20 86–80 4.97 × 10–4 0.036 5 249
(2) Ga2O3/MTS (mesoporous silica) ratio Ga/Si = 0.05 550 WHSV = 0.33 h–1 i-C4H10 = 10, He = 90 46–40 58.3 to i-C4H8 5.52 × 10–5 0.092 2.67 230
(3) β-Ga2O3 500 WHSV = 0.15 h–1 C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 33–12 95–95 6.95 × 10–7 0.21 6 229
(4) Ga2O3 600 WHSV = 1.2 h–1 C3H8 = 17, CO2 = 83 31–3 95–82 3.55 × 10–5 0.67 4 235
(5) 5 wt % Ga2O3/ZrO2 600 WHSV = 0.3 h–1 C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 39–6; 32–8 74 1.90 × 10–5 0.77 3 233
(6) 5 wt % Ga2O3/TiO2     C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 5, N2 = 92.5   73 1.54 × 10–5 0.56    
(7) Ga8Al2O15 500 WHSV = 0.3 h–1 (a) C3H8 = 2.5, N2 = 97.5 51.7–22.5 91.6–98.2 2.39 × 10–6 0.168 8 232
      (b) C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 5, N2 = 92.5 49.7–33.1e 91.7–98.0e 2.30 × 10–6 0.089    
(8) 5 wt % Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5 (w Si/Al = 97) 650 WHSV = 0.36 h–1 C2H6 = 3, CO2 = 15, Ar = 82 23.7–14.5 85.9–93.7 2.84 × 10–5 0.0086 70 244
(10) 0.001 wt % Pt, 1.2 wt % Ga/Al2O3 590 GHSV = 400 h–1 C3H8 = 100 39 86     0.25 247
aAs some of these catalysts require an activation period, the maximum (as opposed to the initial) conversion is considered to determine the deactivation rate.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol Ga*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
eValues obtained at 15 min and 8 h.
4.6 Carbon-Based Catalysts
Carbon materials have been tested as the support in catalysts employed for various reactions, mostly because of their high surface area and the fact that these materials are both inexpensive and environmentally friendly. Moreover, discrete functionalities of activated carbon can catalyze an array of reactions, including alkane dehydrogenation. (250) McGregor et al. have reported that a VOx/Al2O3 catalyst completely encapsulated by coke deposits (see Figure 26) is active in butane dehydrogenation. (215) The fact that catalytic activity remained the same despite complete coke encapsulation is remarkable, as this extent of coking usually results in a drastic decrease in activity. The authors hypothesized that the carbon species formed on the catalyst surface were in fact catalyzing the reaction. The highest activity was observed at 700 °C, a temperature at which the carbon deposits display a very ordered structure. In view of this, the authors decided to test their hypothesis by using carbon nanofibers (CNFs) as a catalyst under similar conditions. Tellingly, CNFs proved to be catalytically active. It was concluded that radicals formed on the surface of coke facilitate the dehydrogenation reaction, albeit at elevated temperatures the noncatalytic conversion of propane is also relatively high. However, elevated temperatures also lead to a drop in selectivity, as cracking becomes the dominant reaction. Interestingly, the latter was not the case in the work of McGregor et al., who reported a selectivity toward butenes of ∼80%. Furthermore, hybrid nanocarbon, comprising a diamond core and a graphitic shell, displayed activity for the dehydrogenation of propane, which was attributed to the presence of either ketone groups or structural defects in the graphitic material. (251)
Figure 26
Figure 26. TEM images of VOx/Al2O3 after butane dehydrogenation at 550 °C (left) and 700 °C (center and right). The high magnification image of the catalyst deactivated at 700 °C clearly shows that the catalyst is completely enveloped in a carbon layer a few nanometers thick. Nevertheless, this catalyst still displays a relatively high activity at 700 °C. Reprinted from ref 215, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
In previous work, CNFs had been shown to be active in the oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane, although in this case surface oxygen groups were believed to be the active sites. (252) Furthermore, nitrogen doped carbon nanotubes (CNTs) showed some activity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, although conversion and selectivity were relatively low. (253)
Liu et al. prepared carbon-based ordered mesoporous systems that showed activity in the dehydrogenation of propane in the absence of steam or oxidants. (254) The active sites were proposed to be oxygen-containing groups (C═O), which are formed during a pretreatment step involving nitric acid. The catalyst shows remarkable long-term stability, displaying conversion and selectivity values of 45% and 85%, respectively, after 100 h of time on stream at 600 °C. Experiments in which carbon nanotubes were tested under similar conditions resulted in low activity.
Neylon et al. studied the activity of supported early transition metal (groups 5 and 6) nitrides and carbides in butane dehydrogenation, (255, 256) as the catalytic properties of these materials are believed to be similar to those of platinum. Interestingly, Mo, V, and W carbides and nitrides showed activity in both dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, displaying specific activities similar to those of a commercial Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst. Niobium carbide and nitride did not show any activity. The group 6 compounds tested were found to be more active, albeit they primarily catalyzed hydrogenolysis. In Table 8 are shown the catalytic data of the carbon-based dehydrogenation catalysts as reported by McGregor et al. and Liu et al.
In addition, silica supported metal sulfides, such as ZnS, FeS, CuS, CoS, MnS, NiS, and MoS, were tested for the dehydrogenation of isobutane, and were found to perform significantly better than their respective oxides. The materials show higher initial yields than commercial CrOx and Pt–Sn catalyst, but they deactivate over a few hours due to sulfur leaching. (257)
Table 8. Summary of the Catalytic Data of Carbon-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)a selectivity (%)a specific activity (s–1)b kd (h–1) catalyst lifec (h) ref
(1) coked 3.5 wt % VOx/Al2O3; CNF 700 GHSV = 72 (at a pressure of 0.5 bar) C4H10 = 3, N2 = 97 50; 41 80; 80 to 1- and 1–3-butene     3 215
(2) mesoporous carbon 600 WHSV = 0.59 C3H8 = 5, N2 = 95 69.3–44.5 62.2–85.1 8.21 × 10–5 0.010 100 254
aFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
bSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol C═O group*t(s)).
cCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
4.7 Other Formulations
Indium is known to share many of the catalytic properties of gallium, a prominent example being the activity that both metals display in NOx reduction. (258) These similarities are relatively unsurprising, particularly taking into account the adjacency of Ga and In within the same group of the periodic table. Interestingly, Halasz et al. have tested the reactivity of propane on Ga- and In-loaded ZSM-5 and found both catalysts to be active in PDH and display similar activity and selectivity values. (259) However, both Ga/ZSM-5 and In/ZSM-5 did not exclusively yield propylene, but also larger aromatic molecules. Whereas dehydrogenation and aromatization activity were found to be associated with Lewis acidity, cracking and coke formation were related to Brønsted acidity.
Chen et al. mixed In2O3 with other metal oxides in an effort to obtain an active PDH catalyst. (260) A mixed oxide consisting of 20% In2O3 and 80% Al2O3 showed the highest propylene yield, as shown in Figure 27. Small In2O3 clusters on the surface of the catalyst were reduced under reaction conditions to form small metallic In particles. Because no correlation between surface acidity and reactivity was observed, these metallic particles were believed to be the species active in dehydrogenation. The reduction of these particles is a slow process during reaction, and thus a considerable amount of time is required to attain the optimal yields. By prereducing the catalyst with hydrogen, high conversions were immediately obtained. Similar conclusions were reached in a study involving a series of oxide-supported In2O3-based catalysts prepared by incipient wetness impregnation. (261) Al2O3 and ZrO2 were more suitable supports than SiO2, as the interaction of the indium oxide was stronger with the former carriers, resulting in a better distribution of small nanoparticles.
CO2 was reported by the same authors to have a beneficial effect, which was ascribed to the occurrence of the reverse water–gas shift reaction (RWGS). Furthermore, sufficiently high CO2:hydrocarbon ratios proved capable of retarding catalyst deactivation.
Figure 27
Figure 27. Propane conversion on a series of 20% In–80% metal mixed oxides showing InAlOx to be the most active formulation (left). Albeit other In:Al ratios were tested, 20% In–80% Al afforded the highest propylene yield. The TPR profiles of different In–Al mixed oxides after H2 reduction at 500 °C and subsequent treatment with CO2 at 600 °C are also shown (right). The peak at around 700 °C (labeled β) represents the reduction of In2O3 to In0; the total hydrogen consumption showing the In2O3 is nearly completely reduced to In0. The peak at 300 °C (labeled α) corresponds to the reduction of small In2O3 domains in the mixed oxide and suggests the formation of small metallic In particles. The absence of this peak in the top trace suggests that CO2 cannot reoxidize these particles at 600 °C. The graph to the left is reprinted from ref 260, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier. The graph to the right is reprinted from ref 262, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Albeit supported iron oxides have been known to be active in ethylbenzene dehydrogenation since 1946, (264) it was not until the 1990s that Geus and co-workers investigated the activity of supported iron oxide in the dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1–3 butadiene. (265-268) The authors determined that Fe3+ is the catalytically active species. The catalysts deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and reduction of Fe2O3 to Fe3O4. However, catalyst stability is significantly enhanced by the addition of potassium. On the one hand, K stabilizes the active phase by forming KFeO2, which donates electrons to the active iron species and prevents their reduction. On the other hand, the acidic groups responsible for coke formation are poisoned by potassium ions. Optimal stability was obtained with a FeOx monolayer, regardless of the type of support employed. An interesting sulfate-promoted FeOx/Al2O3 catalytic system was reported by Sun et al., which showed excellent activity in propane dehydrogenation, accompanied by relatively high stability. (269) The sulfate groups were found to withdraw electrons from Fe, enhancing the acidity of Fe sites and improving activity. Unfortunately, the sulfate groups were not completely stable, and the loss of sulfate groups as SO2 resulted in the irreversible deactivation of the catalyst by carburization and sintering.
In a recent publication by Yun et al., an active propane dehydrogenation catalyst was obtained by incorporating Fe ions in the framework of ZSM-5 zeolites. The catalytic activity was explained by the redox properties of these sites (Fe2+ and Fe3+ redox cycle) that resulted in the formation of radical intermediates. (270) Shimada et al. investigated the use of activated carbon, promoted by Fe, as a catalyst for the dehydrogenation of isobutane. (250) In the absence of iron, activated carbon was only able to afford an isobutene yield of ∼10%, albeit this value increased to 40% upon the addition of 3.5 wt % Fe3O4 in the presence of CO2. In addition to dehydrogenation, the iron oxide also catalyzes the RWGS reaction. Indeed, XRD results show that the iron oxide is reduced by the hydrocarbon feed, and subsequently reoxidized by the CO2 in the feed.
The conversion of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention. (100, 271-275) Isolated Zn2+ species with a tetrahedral orientation were deemed to be the active sites, with a reaction mechanism similar to that reported on GaOx-based dehydrogenation catalysts. (276-280) These species resided in the cation exchange sites of the zeolite, effectively providing the counter-charge for two Al species. The proximity of Al species was found to be important, as calculations show basic Al-bound oxygen is required to perform the C–H cleavage and form an Al–OH group. This is important, as, similar to Ga, Zn–H and Zn–OH groups are difficult to regenerate. Furthermore, these species were found to be highly stable, which is important as volatile Zn species may be formed at dehydrogenation reaction conditions.
The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides. Chen et al. investigated mixed oxides with different zinc to titanium ratios and found that a Zn:Ti ratio of 2 resulted in the most active catalyst. Cubic Zn2TiO3 was deemed to be the active species in dehydrogenation, although the overall activity of these catalysts was found to be limited. (281-283) More recently, isolated Zn2+ species deposited on a silica support were found to be active in propane dehydrogenation. (284) The active sites were determined to be coordinatively unsaturated Zn2+ Lewis acids sites located on a tri-membered siloxane ring on the silica support. During the catalytic reaction, the Zn is transformed to tricoordinated species due to the temperature increase. DFT calculations suggested a reaction mechanism akin to that observed over CrOx and GaOx catalysts.
In Table 9 are shown the catalytic activity data of the indium- and iron-based dehydrogenation catalysts discussed.
Table 9. Summary of the Catalytic Data of the Indium and Iron-Based Dehydrogenation Catalysts Discusseda
catalyst reaction temp (°C) space velocity (h–1) feed composition conversion (%)b selectivity (%)b specific activity (s–1)c kd (h–1) catalyst lifed (h) ref
(1) In2Al8O15 600 WHSV = 0.15 C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 10, N2 = 87.5 35.7–29.3 (3 h, 8 h) 76.5–77.5 2.22 × 10–6 0.058 8 260
(2) 10 wt % In2O3/Al2O3 600 WHSV = 0.15 C3H8 = 2.5, CO2 = 10, N2 = 87.5 21–24–21 (30 m, 3 h, 8 h) 29–83–85 5.41 × 10–6 0.034 8 261
(3) 6 wt % K–3.1 wt % FeO2/MgO 600 WHSV = 0.35 1-C4H8 = 5, H2O = 30, N2 = 65 39–25 80–82 to 1–3-butadiene   0.67 20 266
(4) 3.4 wt % Fe3O4/Cact 650 WHSV = 7 i-C4H10 = 30, CO2 = 70 32–20 (0.5 h, 4.5 h) 71–65 (to i-C4H8)   0.16 4.5 250
aBecause catalyst reduction by the hydrocarbon stream tends to be a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity, the table shows both optimal and final conversion values along with the corresponding selectivity. The times at which these conversions are obtained are shown in parentheses.
bFirst value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end.
cSpecific activity is defined as (mol olefin formed)/(mol ln*t(s)).
dCatalyst life = total time single cycle/experiment.
5 Comparing Different Catalysts
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
5.1 In Terms of Reaction Mechanism and Deactivation Pathway
Even though the dehydrogenation reaction has been studied for almost a century, the exact mechanism is still a topic under debate, particularly because this reaction is catalyzed by a vast array of materials as different as noble metals and transition metal oxides. The so-called Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, which was proposed in 1934, is most commonly used to describe catalytic dehydrogenation reactions. (285) This mechanism follows Langmuir–Hinshelwood kinetics, where all of the surface sites of the catalyst are considered to be identical. The Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism consists of four main steps: dissociative adsorption of the paraffin, C–H cleavage of a second hydrogen atom, formation of a hydrogen molecule, and subsequent desorption of both the hydrogen and the olefin, as is shown in Scheme 2a–g. (286) Notably, both C–H cleavage steps (229, 263, 287-289) and the dissociative adsorption of the paraffin have been suggested as the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenation reaction. (96, 98, 144, 290)
Several studies have been performed on Pt and Pt–Sn catalysts to gain a detailed understanding of the mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction. First, isotopic labeling experiments have been used to identify the reaction intermediates. For example, cofeeding D2 during ethane dehydrogenation resulted in a single deuterium being attached to the ethane molecules, suggesting an ethyl reaction intermediate. (291) However, because the dehydrogenation reaction is an equilibrium-controlled reaction, compounds can react back and forth leading to isotopic scrambling, which complicates the interpretation of experimental results.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Dehydrogenation Mechanism As Proposed by Horiuti and Polanyi on a Pt Surfacea
Scheme aThe intermediates depicted have been observed by IR spectroscopy during the hydrogenation reaction at low temperatures and are supported by theoretical calculations. The dissociative adsorption of propane may also take place by the abstraction of the β-hydrogen, forming a 2-propyl intermediate, but for brevity this pathway is not shown. High paraffin pressures favor the formation of propylidyne species (step h-j), which are coke precursors. These species are relatively stable and can only be hydrogenated when high concentrations of hydrogen are present on the Pt surface. (292-297)
Infrared spectroscopy is another valuable tool to detect intermediates formed during dehydrogenation reactions on Pt-based catalysts. Because of experimental limitations, this is done through the study of the reverse hydrogenation reaction, which takes places at considerably lower temperatures. This approach assumes that the same reaction intermediates are encountered, which needs to be verified due to the significantly different reaction conditions. During the adsorption of ethylene on both Pt and Pt–Sn surfaces at temperatures ranging from −100 to 27 °C, several species are detected, including ethylidyne as well as π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene (the propylene analogues of which are shown in Scheme 2). (116, 117, 298-300) Cremer et al. used sum frequency generation IR to elucidate the role of these ethylene adspecies on a Pt (111) surface. (301, 302) During ethylene hydrogenation, ethylidyne was found to be a spectator species, although one competing for active sites on the catalyst surface. On the other hand, π-bonded ethylene was determined to be the main intermediate of ethylene hydrogenation, although di-σ-bonded ethylene was also converted at a lower rate. Ethyl groups are only detected at very high hydrogen pressures, as these species readily convert to di-σ-ethylene otherwise. Nevertheless, Zaera et al. have reported that the reaction mechanism of ethylene hydrogenation involves a π-bonded ethylene and an ethyl intermediate. (303) Furthermore, when propylene adsorption on Pt (111) was studied by reflection–absorption IR spectroscopy, most of the propylene was found to be coordinated as di-σ-bonded, albeit π-bonded propylene was found to predominate at high surface coverages. (292) On the contrary, DFT calculations showed that propylene is preferentially adsorbed in the disigma mode. (75, 114) DFT calculations performed on Pt, Pt3Sn, and Pt2Sn (111) surfaces during the PDH reaction have revealed that the dissociative adsorption of the alkane is the rate-limiting step. In the presence of Sn, this energy barrier is increased, as is shown in Figure 28, therefore decreasing the activity of the catalyst. (114, 118) On Pt (111) the dehydrogenation may proceed by a 1- or a 2-propyl intermediate, while on the Pt–Sn alloys the 1-propyl intermediate is favored. The positive effect of Sn on catalytic activity is explained by the facile desorption of propylene, which hinders further dehydrogenation of the adsorbed propylene.
Figure 28
Figure 28. Energy profiles for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on Pt (111) (black), Pt3Sn (111) (blue), and Pt2Sn (111) (red) surfaces, as obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates are shown along with their corresponding energies. The recombination of the hydrogen adatoms is not considered. (114) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Microcalorimetry has afforded complementary information on the dehydrogenation mechanism over Pt-based catalysts, a lower heat of adsorption of ethylene being detected on the Pt–Sn relative to the Pt surface (94–135 and 157 kJ mol–1, respectively). (117, 296) These relatively high heat of adsorption values are generally indicative of the dissociative adsorption of a hydrocarbon. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations on the adsorption of ethane on different Pt and Pt–Sn alloy surfaces, (111) and (211), have revealed that electron transfer takes place from Sn to Pt. Keeping in mind the fact that Sn addition reduces the heat of adsorption, the formation of ethylidyne becomes energetically less favorable because of this electron transfer. (117, 118, 289, 304) In addition, by studying these different Pt–Sn alloys, it was shown that the presence of Sn reduces the amount of highly active Pt step sites, on which reaction intermediates adsorb strongly. (304) The latter observation is rendered particularly noteworthy by the fact that isotopic labeling experiments, performed by Galvita et al. during ethane dehydrogenation, have revealed that ethylene can form methane and coke through cracking, the conversion proceeding via an ethylidyne intermediate. (132, 290)
The dehydrogenation mechanism on chromia-based catalysts is somewhat different, as both the chromium and the oxygen atoms of the oxide are believed to participate in the reaction. (305) Quantum chemical methods (DFT) have been used by Lillehaug et al. to study the mechanism of ethane dehydrogenation on a series of clusters containing a single Cr3+ ion bonded to O–H or O–Si groups species, which served as a model for the different active sites suggested in literature. (306, 307) The first step they proposed is C–H activation via σ-bond metathesis resulting in the formation of Cr–C and O–H bonds, followed by a β-H transfer to a Cr site. (306, 308) The final step proposed is the formation of hydrogen and the desorption of the latter and ethylene. An alternative mechanism, in which a Cr–H species activates ethane by forming molecular hydrogen and an adsorbed ethyl species, has been proposed on the basis of the results of isotopic labeling experiments performed during ethane dehydrogenation on a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. (144) The two main mechanisms proposed for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes on chromia/alumina catalysts are shown in Scheme 3. In these mechanisms, either the dissociative adsorption (144, 305) or β-H elimination is believed to be the rate-limiting step. (306, 309, 310) Figure 29 shows two reaction cycles in an energy diagram, as calculated by Lillehaug et al. Indeed, the energy barrier is the highest for the initial C–H activation, although this energy is significantly lower when the bond is activated by the Cr–H intermediate (i.e., the right part of Scheme 3). Nevertheless, hydrogen desorption is preferred, as the energy barrier is lower.
In situ FTIR spectroscopy has provided evidence of the formation of acetaldehyde and acetone intermediates as ethane and propane are adsorbed on a mesoporous chromia–alumina catalyst. (197) Furthermore, during the dehydrogenation of propane on a CrOx catalyst, surface species including aliphatic, unsaturated, and aromatic carbon species, along with acetates and carboxylates, have been detected by diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS). (192, 197, 311) This is consistent with a model in which the first step of the reaction is the abstraction of hydrogen from the alkane to form an alkoxide species (ethoxide and isopropoxide being formed from ethane and propane, respectively). However, the reduction of the catalyst prior to the dehydrogenation reaction led to a dramatic decrease in the amounts of acetates and carboxylates detected, albeit the reaction rate remained unaffected. Evidently, the latter throws into question the role of acetic and carboxylic species as reaction intermediates. An alternative interpretation is that these species are formed during the reduction of the Cr6+ species by hydrocarbons present in the feed. Parenthetically, the involvement of hydrocarbons in the formation of reduced active chromium sites, the participation of both chromium and oxygen atoms in the reaction, and the proposition that C–H activation represents the first reaction step are somewhat reminiscent of the Phillips catalyst and of the mechanism of ethylene polymerization recently proposed by Copéret and co-workers over this formulation. (312, 313) However, additional work will be necessary to investigate the relationship between the mechanisms of ethylene polymerization and ethane dehydrogenation, particularly in view of the different nature of the reactions and the reaction conditions.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms for the Dehydrogenation of Ethane on CrOx Catalysts (144, 306, 307)
Figure 29
Figure 29. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on CrOx catalyst obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates from Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that for the second section of the scheme, a second propane molecule is dehydrogenated. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
The reaction mechanism on GaOx has been studied by Liu et al. by DFT calculations on a Ga (100) surface (Figure 30). (231) A mechanism similar to that shown in Scheme 3 was proposed, except for the fact that the initial C–H activation takes place involving a radical, which can adsorb on the Ga site as an ethyl species, or directly undergo the second C–H cleavage step. The desorption of both hydrogen and propylene was found to be energetically unfavorable, which was used to explain the rapid coking and the relative low activity of GaOx-based dehydrogenation catalysts. Indeed, while heating Ga2O3 in an ethane atmosphere, the evolution of Ga-ethyl and hydroxyl surface species was observed by DRIFTS at 150 °C. (316)
Figure 30
Figure 30. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on GaOx catalyst, as determined by DFT calculations on a Ga (100) surface. Intermediates analogous to those displayed in Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that two pathways for the dehydrogenation of propane are considered, one involving a radical intermediate and another an ethyl intermediate, the former having a lower energy barrier. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
To summarize, most of the experimental results suggest that the dehydrogenation of light alkanes proceeds via the Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, where either the dissociative adsorption of the alkane or the second C–H bond cleavage is the rate-determining step. Evidence of fundamental differences in the reaction mechanism on metal oxide and noble metal catalysts is lacking, although reports of mechanistic studies involving metal oxide catalysts are admittedly scant.
All dehydrogenation catalysts deactivate with time-on-stream, several processes being responsible for the deactivation of the different types of catalysts discussed in this Review. However, there has been a clear consensus in the literature since the mid-1970s identifying coke deposition as the main cause of deactivation. (77, 317-319) Coke is a collective name given to a large family of highly graphitized hydrocarbon molecules that tend to form on the catalyst surface during reaction. Coke accumulation effectively hinders the diffusion of reactants to the catalyst surface by blocking both pores and active sites, which results in a drop in catalytic activity. Therefore, the detrimental effect of coke is largely dependent on catalyst design and the location of the coke deposits. (320)
The process of coke formation is very complex and not very well understood. Brønsted acid and others active sites of the catalysts serve as seeding points to which olefins and paraffins are added until large graphitic structures are formed. Indeed, olefins in the stream can easily react with the carbocation intermediates formed on these acid sites. Additionally, strong adsorption of reaction intermediates, such as the ethylidyne or ethyne species discussed above, (75, 132, 290) and/or products on active sites can also induce polymerization and lead to the formation of graphitic sheets. In Scheme 4, several pathways for the formation of the first aromatic ring structures from propylidyne and similar molecules are proposed, which include cracking, deep dehydrogenation, and polymerization reactions.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Proposed Pathway Linking the Formation of Strongly Adsorbed Propyl Species to That of an Aromatic Ring through a Series of Cracking (a–e), Deep Dehydrogenation (f–i), and/or Dimerization (f,g,j,k) Reactions (293, 294, 321)a
Scheme aNote that the adsorbed hydrocarbons shown in the scheme are examples of species formed on the Pt surface, and that they actually represent a family of similar species.
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Proposed Mechanisms for the Growth of Polyaromatic Species by Either Diels–Alder-type Addition, Propylene Addition via Radical Chemistry, or Fusion of Small Domains into Larger Ones (322, 323)a
Scheme aThe species will continue to grow in a similar fashion, and at a certain point are considered to be graphene-like sheets. The molecules in the scheme are only simplified hydrogen-deficient coke precursors that may be present on the surface of the catalyst. Such species are directly bonded to the Pt surface and in reality will contain significant amounts of hydrogen, either in hydrogen-terminated aromatic rings or in aliphatic side chains.
Coke species may grow from the resulting aromatic rings by either Diels–Alder-type addition, propylene addition to a radical, or fusion of smaller domains, as shown in Scheme 5. When these polyaromatic species are still relatively small, they can also migrate from the metal to the support (where they can undergo further oligomerization and condensation). In fact, the addition of Sn to the Pt-based catalyst facilitates this migration by weakening the binding of the hydrocarbon to the metal. (304, 324, 325) In addition, acid sites present on the support may protonate these small polyaromatics, making them more reactive toward gas-phase olefins. (322, 326) Nevertheless, studies on these processes are scant, which is why the mechanism explaining the progression from adsorbed atomic carbon to aromatic rings is still largely unknown. Therefore, more detailed studies are needed to better understand this process. For example, it would be beneficial to gain a fundamental understanding on the steps proposed in Schemes 4 and 5 to develop strategies to prevent coke formation through these routes.
The location of coke is very important, as coke on the support has a milder negative effect on catalyst activity. (320, 324) However, it is important to note that the presence of carbon deposits on the surface does not always negatively influence catalyst performance. Indeed, a low amount of coke deposition has been observed to increase the catalytic activity by facilitating the adsorption of the alkane near the active dehydrogenation site. (320) Furthermore, highly active sites responsible for side reactions, such as hydrogenolysis, are the first to be poisoned by coke, resulting in higher selectivity to the olefin product. Coke becomes detrimental when large graphitic sheets are formed that cover the catalytically active sites. (173, 180) To address this coke-induced deactivation, a regeneration step under an oxidative atmosphere has been incorporated to industrial dehydrogenation processes. This process is relatively straightforward, as coke is easily combusted in air at dehydrogenation reaction temperatures. The ambivalent nature of coke deposits is further highlighted by the fact that their presence on deactivated catalysts is essential in the industrial processes that use coke combustion as the main source of the heat required to run the dehydrogenation reaction.
Several strategies have been applied to control coke formation. For example, coke deposition can be dramatically reduced by using a support with little to no Brønsted acidity, or by poisoning the acid sites. Changes in the reaction conditions, such as cofeeding steam, hydrogen, or CO2, can reduce coke formation, (324, 327, 328) whereas high partial pressures of olefins and paraffins exacerbate coke deposition. Even the nature of the alkane reactant has an effect, as coke formed during propane dehydrogenation on a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst is reported to be more detrimental than coke formed during ethane dehydrogenation (although such a comparison is difficult because these reactions run at different temperatures). (132) Alternatively, coke deposition can be reduced by adding a promoter element, the addition of Sn to Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts being the best-known example.
5.2 In Terms of Propane and Isobutane Dehydrogenation Performance
Given that a large variety of catalysts are active in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of C2–C4 paraffins, as documented in Tables 3–9, a comprehensive comparison of the activity and stability of these catalysts is desirable, particularly because said comparison stands to reveal qualitative differences between various formulations. We have attempted this comparison focusing on three performance criteria, olefin yield (obtained at the start of the experiment), stability (expressed as the deactivation rate), and the space velocity at which the first two criteria were measured (expressed as WHSV). In this approach, the effects of various factors, such as pressure, temperature, preparation method, promoter, and catalyst support, are not considered. The reasons to ignore these effects include the fact that this information is missing in many articles (pressure being a notable example), the absence of a clear trend (as tends to be the case with temperature), and an excessively large variance within a single variable to allow a meaningful comparison (catalyst preparation being an instance of such a variable). It is important to note that catalysts were only included in this comparison if the space velocity, deactivation rate, and initial yield could be determined from the information provided in the original source. Also of note is the fact that the performance criteria compared were measured during propane or isobutane dehydrogenation, which are the reactions that have been researched most intensively.
Figure 31
Figure 31. Propylene yield during propane dehydrogenation (left) and isobutene yield during isobutane dehydrogenation (right) versus the deactivation rate of catalysts included in Tables 3–9. Each data point is labeled with the number included in the first column of the relevant table, to distinguish between different catalysts. Catalyst systems displaying high yields combined with low deactivation rates are preferred.
In Figure 31, the yields of propylene and isobutene are plotted versus the deactivation rate of Pt-, CrOx-, GaOx-, and In2O3-based catalysts. Moreover, in the plot showing PDH results, the data points representing the catalytic performance of different catalyst types are grouped around similar values, the best initial yields being similar for Pt and CrOx and slightly higher for GaOx. Additionally, PDH results show that the different catalyst types deactivate at different speeds, with Pt being particularly stable, CrOx deactivating rapidly, and other systems deactivating even faster. Another interesting observation stemming from the PDH data is that within each type of catalyst high yields often coincide with relatively low deactivation rates, which is counterintuitive. Although considerably fewer data points are available for the isobutane dehydrogenation, the Pt-based catalysts also display a superior stability as compared to the metal oxides at similar yields. Notably, the VOx-based catalysts show excellent yields (∼40%), albeit they deactivate very fast.
Space velocity is another important factor that has been considered to compare the performance of different dehydrogenation catalysts. In Figure 32 are plotted propylene and isobutene yield aagainst the weight hourly space velocity (WHSV).
Figure 32
Figure 32. Yield of propylene and isobutene versus WHSV (left and right, respectively) of the catalysts included in Tables 3–9. High yields obtained at high space velocities are preferred. Therefore, because Pt-based catalysts can afford comparable yields to catalysts based on metal oxides while operating at higher space velocities, they are deemed superior in this respect.
To be commercially attractive, dehydrogenation catalysts must provide high olefin yields at high space velocities. In other words, catalysts should display high specific activity, which is to say good conversion at short contact times. Figure 32 illustrates that while the yields obtained over GaOx-, CrOx-, and Pt-based propane dehydrogenation catalysts are comparable, GaOx-, CrOx-, and Pt-based catalysts operate at relatively low, intermediate, and high space velocities, respectively.
Taking into account that Pt-based catalysts typically have low loadings (<1 wt %), whereas GaOx- and CrOx-based catalysts generally have loadings between 5 and 20 wt %, it is clear that on a weight basis Pt represents the most active formulation in PDH. This is confirmed when the average specific activities from Tables 3–9 are compared to one another. Indeed, for the dehydrogenation of propane on Pt-based catalysts, the average specific activity is 2.86 × 10–1 s–1, which is considerably higher than the average specific activities over CrOx and GaOx, which are 7.49 × 10–5 and 8.17 × 10–5, respectively. In Scheme 6, the proposed active sites for propane dehydrogenation of these three catalysts are shown. In the case of platinum-based catalysts, any Pt0 atom located at the surface is believed to catalyze the reaction, while in CrOx- and GaOx-based catalysts Cr3+ and Ga3+ must be coordinatively unsaturated to display catalytic activity. This similarity between the active sites of Ga- and Cr-containing catalyst, and their difference to Pt, may therefore explain the relative specific activity values of these formulations.
However, it should be noted that specific activity values are a very rough approximation of the real TOF of these catalysts. In case of Pt catalysts, all Pt (not only the surface Pt) is taken into account in our specific activity calculation, and additional errors are introduced for the metal oxides. In the case of CrOx catalysts, only coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species are active in the dehydrogenation reaction, yet our specific activity calculations take into account a considerable amount of species that are either coordinatively saturated or in a different oxidation state. Although Ga3+ is likely the only stable species during the dehydrogenation reaction, our specific activity calculation involving GaOx catalysts considers a significant amount of the Ga that is either present in the framework of the support or incorporated in larger Ga2O3 crystallites. Nevertheless, the difference between the specific activity calculated for Pt and the metal oxides is in the range of 4 orders of magnitude, which cannot be explained solely by the errors introduced in our calculations. For the dehydrogenation of isobutane, the same differences of specific activities between the Pt and metal oxide catalysts are observed.
It is important to mention that catalysts tend to deactivate faster when higher space velocities are used. Notably, metal oxide-based catalysts deactivate faster than the Pt-based formulations, despite the fact that the latter are commonly used at higher space velocities, which highlights the remarkable stability of Pt catalysts.
The differences in the specific activity values described previously could be explained by comparing the activation energies calculated by DFT methods previously discussed in section 4. In these calculations, the energy barrier for the rate limiting step on Pt–Sn system is lower (109 kJ mol–1) than in the CrOx and GaOx catalysts (161 and 163 kJ mol–1, respectively). Ea affects the reaction rate, as described by the Arrhenius equation:
where k is the reaction rate constant, A is the pre-exponential factor, R is the gas constant, and T is the temperature. By calculating k/A at a temperature of 600 °C and assuming A is comparable for the three systems considered, the rate constant is ∼103 times higher for the Pt–Sn catalysts as compared to the metal oxide catalysts. The difference in the calculated specific activity values for propane dehydrogenation on the Pt and metal oxide catalysts (Tables 3, 4, and 7) is approximately 104, as is shown in Scheme 6. The higher activity observed for the Pt-based catalysts may therefore be explained by the significantly lower energy barrier of the rate-limiting step. However, care must be taken when comparing these Ea values, as the methods used for obtaining these are not identical. Furthermore, these simulations assume model surfaces that do not resemble real catalyst systems, and therefore the results are not necessarily representative of the experimentally observed reaction rates. Nevertheless, these combined theoretical and experimental data are very encouraging and highlight the need for more extensive studies on the reaction rate on Pt- and metal oxide-based dehydrogenation catalysts.
To summarize, although metal oxide-based catalysts can afford yields comparable to those obtained using Pt-based formulations, the latter can operate at higher space velocities and exhibit lower deactivation rates than metal oxide catalysts.
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Proposed Active Sites for the Pt-, CrOx-, and GaOx-Based Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts, the Order of Magnitude of Their Calculated Specific Activity, and the Reaction Rates (k/A) Calculated by DFT
6 Conclusions and Emerging Areas of Research
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Because of their widespread use as feedstock in the chemical industry, the demand for olefins is expected to remain high for the foreseeable future. Additionally, the recent surge in shale gas production has rendered the cost of natural gas very economical as compared to that of crude oil. Therefore, alternative methods for obtaining olefins, dehydrogenation and MTO, have become very competitive relative to more traditional methods, such as fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking. Indeed, dozens of new PDH projects have been announced in the past few years. The installations proposed or being built will employ either CrOx/Al2O3 (Catofin) or Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (Oleflex) catalysts. These catalysts and technologies have been advanced to a point where the reaction can be run continuously for several years. Nevertheless, current dehydrogenation technologies still offer room for improvement, and thus further advances are needed to lower noble metal loading, increase catalyst stability, and/or improve the energy efficiency of the dehydrogenation process. Moreover, steps will need to be taken to overcome the reactions biggest drawbacks, that is, the limited equilibrium conversion and the prevalence of side reactions at high temperatures.
Although alternative catalysts, most notably metal oxides such as GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, have received significant attention over the last decades, a practicable alternative to the Pt–Sn and CrOx systems has not yet been developed. Indeed, these alternative formulations deactivate too fast, mainly due to coke deposition and to the fact that their activity cannot be fully recovered by a regeneration step. Thus, further research will also be necessary to address these issues.
Nevertheless, advancements can also be expected in other areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation does not have the thermodynamic limitations shown by nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Because an oxidant combusts the hydrogen formed during reaction, full conversion of the paraffin can be achieved. O2 and CO2 have been the most investigated oxidizing agents, each having distinct advantages and disadvantages. In the case of O2, coke deposition is nonexistent, the reaction temperature can be lowered to about 400 °C, and the dehydrogenation reaction becomes exothermic (H2 + 1/2O2 ↔ H2O (ΔH2980 = −242 kJ mol–1)). Nevertheless, new challenges arise as overoxidation of the hydrocarbons in the feed must be avoided to maintain high olefin selectivity. (252, 329, 330) CO2, being a much milder oxidant, can effectively consume H2 under dehydrogenation conditions, although it is not reactive enough to oxidize the hydrocarbons in the reaction mixture. However, much less heat is formed when CO2 is used, so the dehydrogenation reaction remains endothermic (H2 + CO2 ↔ H2O + CO (ΔH2980 = 41 kJ mol–1)), as the RWGS does not provide enough heat to compensate for the highly endothermic dehydrogenation reaction. The cofeeding of CO2 may result in additional coke deposition, due to the increased CO and decreased H2 partial pressures brought about by the reverse water–gas shift reaction. On the other hand, coke may be gasified by CO2. Finally, CO2 competitively adsorbs on the surface, specifically on the basic sites of the catalyst materials, which can negatively affect their performance. (162, 175, 331) In short, finding a suitable combination of catalyst material and oxidizing agent will be pivotal in the development of an effective reaction system for the oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.
An alternative solution lies in the use of solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, and BiO3, capable of selectively oxidizing the hydrogen evolved by the SHC reaction. (332-334) Noble metals, such as Pt and Au, can also catalyze the SHC process, but in this case oxygen is cofed to facilitate the hydrogen combustion. (335, 336) Because the SHC reaction consumes the lattice oxygen of metal oxide catalysts, the latter require frequent regeneration with oxygen. Moreover, the reaction rate is relatively low and some of these metal oxides are highly toxic. These issues need to be resolved for this approach to become viable for industrial application.
Another method of removing the hydrogen from the reaction mixture is the introduction of membranes to the reactor system. This approach allows hydrogen to diffuse out of the reactor, shifting the equilibrium toward the desired olefin product. (337-344) A large variety of membranes have been investigated, such as Pd-coated mesoporous alumina, Pt–Ag composites, and membranes involving either molybdenum- or carbon-based molecular sieves. The inverse relationship between permeability and selectivity of the membranes is a serious problem, as both qualities are desired. Catalyst deactivation represents an additional challenge, as coke deposition increases when the hydrogen partial pressure drops. Nevertheless, nearly all studies report increased olefin yields when a membrane system is used.
It is very important to heed the interplay between catalyst deactivation and regeneration in industrial settings. Indeed, for both the Pt and the CrOx formulations used industrially, the elimination of coke from the surface of the spent catalysts may result in irreversible catalyst deactivation if the regeneration conditions are not carefully controlled. Currently, this is done in a very crude manner, by monitoring the gas composition at the reactor outlet. However, recent reports suggest that in the near future, operando spectroscopy will provide the means for more sophisticated process control. (198) Indeed, Raman/UV–vis spectroscopy can be used to monitor noninvasively the amount and type of coke as the latter forms and accumulates on the catalyst surface. (173, 180, 345, 346) As is shown in Figure 33, spatiotemporal differences in the coke deposition on a catalyst bed consisting of CrOx/Al2O3 extrudates were visualized in a pilot scale reactor using two UV–vis probes, which collected spectra in a continuous fashion during propane dehydrogenation. (198) Coke deposition was observed to occur faster at the top of the catalyst bed, which was attributed to the temperature gradient measured in the reactor. Furthermore, coke combustion proceeded in an inhomogeneous fashion, coke at the top of the catalyst bed being combusted first.
Figure 33
Figure 33. To the left, a schematic representation of the pilot-scale reactor used for propane dehydrogenation is shown. Two UV–vis probes are inserted in the reactor to visualize the deactivation of the CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst as a function of time and catalyst bed height (the spectra acquired are shown in the center of the figure). This technique is excellent to visualize the coke-induced darkening of the catalyst extrudates from green to black, as is shown in the photographs to the right. Reproduced from ref 198, copyright 2013, by permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry.
These measurements show that the duration of the dehydrogenation and regeneration phases could be dynamically adjusted to keep the catalyst in its most active state, as moderate amounts of coke are believed to assist the dehydrogenation reaction while excessive amounts lead to catalyst deactivation (vide supra). The latter would undoubtedly represent an improvement to the way in which reversible deactivation is currently addressed. As an additional advantage, UV–vis spectroscopy can be used to monitor the long-term irreversible deactivation of the catalyst. Indeed, because the relative amounts of active chromia and of chromium that has become irreversibly deactivated due to its migration into the support can be measured by UV–vis spectroscopy, this technique provides a means to determine when the catalyst needs replacing.
This analysis has been taken a step further by designing, constructing, and testing probes for operando Raman spectroscopy, which were used to obtain information on the chemical nature of the coke deposits formed during reaction. Furthermore, by using the operando UV–vis spectra as a measure for catalyst darkening, a quantitative analysis of the coke deposits could be performed during the initial stages of the dehydrogenation reaction by operando Raman spectroscopy. (49, 180, 346)
Therefore, the monitoring of industrial chromia–alumina catalysts by combined time-resolved UV–vis and Raman spectroscopies can be employed to improve the overall efficiency of future alkane dehydrogenation processes.
Author Information
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Corresponding Author
Bert M. Weckhuysen - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands;  Email: b.m.weckhuysen@uu.nl
Authors
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands
Javier Ruiz-Martinez - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez - Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute of Nanomaterials, Utrecht University, Universiteitsweg 99, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Biographies
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler was born in Veenendaal, The Netherlands, in 1986. He obtained his master’s degree in chemistry at Utrecht University. His thesis was on the subject of the intergrowth of zeolite materials studied by in situ microspectroscopy under the supervision of Dr. Marianne H. F. Kox and Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen. He continued working under the guidance of Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen for his Ph.D. research, which focusses on the deactivation of propane dehydrogenation catalysts.
Javier Ruiz-Martinez
Javier Ruiz-Martinez was born in Granada, Spain, in 1979. He completed his master’s degree in Chemical Engineering at the University of Granada and the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in 2003. After graduation, he started his Ph.D. under the supervision of Prof. Antonio Sepulveda-Escribano and Prof. Francisco Rodriguez-Reinoso at the University of Alicante, on the synthesis and characterization of Pt–Sn catalysts for selective hydrogenation and steam reforming reactions. During his Ph.D., he worked as a visiting researcher with Prof. James Anderson at the University of Aberdeen and with Prof. Burtron Davis and Dr. Gary Jacobs at the University of Kentucky Center for Applied Energy Research. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2009, he moved to Utrecht University as a postdoctoral research fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen, where he obtained a personal NWO Veni grant in 2012. Since October 2013, he is an assistant professor within the same group.
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez was born in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, in 1980. While studying chemistry at the Autonomous University of San Luis Potosi, he interned in the laboratory of Prof. David Atwood at the University of Kentucky (Lexington, KY), working on the removal of mercury from water. After graduation, he joined the University of Kentucky (UK) chemistry graduate program, performing his doctoral research on the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides at the UK Center for Applied Energy Research (CAER) and at the University of Alicante (Spain), under the guidance of Prof. Mark Crocker and Prof. Agustin Bueno-Lopez. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2008, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen at Utrecht University (The Netherlands), where part of his work centered on the study of propane dehydrogenation catalysts via operando spectroscopy. In 2010, he returned to the UK-CAER, where he now holds the position of Principal Research Scientist.
Bert M. Weckhuysen
Bert M. Weckhuysen was born in Aarschot, Belgium, in 1968. After receiving his Ph.D. in 1995 with Prof. Robert Schoonheydt from Leuven University, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow with Prof. Israel Wachs at Lehigh University and Prof. Jack Lunsford at Texas A&M University. Since 2000, he is full professor of inorganic chemistry and catalysis at Utrecht University. He has authored over 340 publications in peer-reviewed scientific journals. Weckhuysen has received several research awards for his work on in situ catalyst characterization, the most recent being the 2011 Paul H. Emmett Award in Fundamental Catalysis from the North American Catalysis Society, the 2012 International Catalysis Award from the International Association of Catalysis Societies, the 2013 Royal Society of Chemistry Bourke Award, and the 2013 Spinoza Award from The Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research.
Acknowledgment
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This work was funded by The Netherlands Research School Combination-Catalysis (NRSC-C). J.R.-M. also acknowledges NWO for his VENI grant. Jelle M. Boereboom is kindly acknowledged for designing Figures 12 and 20 and the table of content figure.
References
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
This article references 346 other publications.
1Budavari, S.; O’Neil, M.; Smith, A.; Heckelman, P.; Obenchain, J. In The Merck Index, 12th ed.; Budavari, S., Ed.; Merck & Co.: NJ, 1996; pp 1348– 1349.Google Scholar
2McCoy, M.; Reisch, M.; Tullo, A. H.; Short, P. L.; Tremblay, J.-F. Chem. Eng. News 2006, 84, 59[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
3Ethylene Uses and Market Data, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2007/11/05/9075777/ethylene-uses-and-market-data.html (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
4Market Study: Propylene (UC-1705), http://www.ceresana.com/en/market-studies/chemicals/propylene/ (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
5The Global Olefins and Polyolefins Markets in 2011 - Slow Growth in Demand Amid Political and Economical Crisis, http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/bdd2c0/the_global_olefins (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
6Nexant. Industry Report - Independent Market Report on the Global and Indonesian Petrochemicals Industry, http://www.chandra-asri.com/UserFiles/201105151926340.NexantIndustryReport2011.pdf (accessed Oct 20, 2013) .Google Scholar
7Radcliffe, C. The FCC unit as a propylene source, http://www.digitalrefining.com/article/1000312#.UmpROtK8BWQ (accessed Oct 25, 2013) .Google Scholar
8Tullo, A. H. Chem. Eng. News 2012, 90, 10Google Scholar
9McFarland, E. Science 2012, 338, 340[Crossref], Google Scholar
10Torres Galvis, H. M.; de Jong, K. P. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 2130[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
11Stocker, M. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 1999, 29, 3[Crossref], Google Scholar
12Bullin, K.; Krouskop, P. Composition Variety Complicates Processing Plans for US Shale Gas, http://www.bre.com/portals/0/technicalarticles/KeithBullin-CompositionVariety_USShaleGas.pdf (accessed Oct 21, 2013) .Google Scholar
13Chemical Composition of Natural Gas, http://www.uniongas.com/about-us/about-natural-gas/Chemical-Composition-of-Natural-Gas#L (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
14America’s New Energy Future: The Unconventional Oil & Gas Revolution and the US Economy, http://www.ihs.com/info/ecc/a/americas-new-energy-future-report-vol-3.aspx (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
15Schut, J. H. How Shale Gas Is Changing Propylene, http://plasticsengineeringblog.com/2013/02/20/how-shale-gas-is-changing-propylene/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
16Propylene from Propane via Dehydrogenation (similar to UOP Oleflex), http://base.intratec.us/home/chemical-processes/propylene/propylene-from-propane-via-dehydrogenation (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
17Propylene from Propane via Dehydrogenation (similar to Lummus CATOFIN), http://base.intratec.us/home/chemical-processes/propylene/propylene-from-propane-via-dehydrogenation-2 (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
18Buonomo, F.; Sanfilippo, D.; Trifiro, F. In Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis; Ertl, G.; Knozinger, H.; Weitkamp, J., Eds.; Wiley-VHC Verlag GmbH: Weinheim, Germany, 1997; pp 2140– 2151.Google Scholar
19Alperowicz, N. Engineering & construction: Shale boom reinvigorates the industry, could lead to shortage of labor recources, http://www.chemweek.com/lab/Engineering-and-construction-Shale-boom-reinvigorates-the-industry-could-lead-to-shortage-of-labor-resources_52648.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
20Hua, L. China propane imports to surge on new PDH projects, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2013/05/21/9670487/china-propane-imports-to-surge-on-new-pdh-projects.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
21Shale Gas, Competitiveness, and New US Chemical Industry Investment: An Analysis Based on Announced Projects, http://chemistrytoenergy.com/sites/chemistrytoenergy.com/files/shale-gas-full-study.pdf (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
22Richardson, J. Market intelligence: BD capacity on the way, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/03/12/9539978/Market-intelligence-BD-capacity-on-the-way.html (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
23Richardson, J. Butadiene Oversupply Threat, http://www.icis.com/blogs/asian-chemical-connections/2012/05/butadiene-oversupply-threat/ (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
24Naylor, L. Lower Europe LLDPE imports support Europe pricing picture, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/03/12/9539978/Market-intelligence-BD-capacity-on-the-way.html (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
25Lopez, J. BASF, Linde plan to jointly develop butadiene technology, http://www.icis.com/resources/news/2014/06/03/9786384/basf-linde-plan-to-jointly-develop-butadiene-technology/ (accessed Jun 26, 2014) .Google Scholar
26Bhasin, M. M.; McCain, J. H.; Vora, B. V.; Imai, T.; Pujadó, P. R. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 221, 397[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
27Vora, B. V. Top. Catal. 2012, 55, 1297[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
28Bricker, J. C. Top. Catal. 2012, 55, 1309[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
29Weckhuysen, B. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A. Catal. Today 1999, 51, 223[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
30Jackson, S. D.; Stair, P. C.; Gladden, L. F.; McGregor, J. In Metal Oxide Catalysis; Jackson, S. D.; Hargreaves, J. S. J., Eds.; Wiley-VHC Verlag GmbH: Weinheim, Germany, 2009; pp 595– 612.Google Scholar
31Albonetti, S.; Cavani, F.; Trifiro, F. Catal. Rev.: Sci. Eng. 1996, 38, 413[Crossref], Google Scholar
32Cavani, F.; Ballarini, N.; Cericola, A. Catal. Today 2007, 127, 113[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
33Copéret, C. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 656[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
34Krylov, O. V.; Mamedov, A. K.; Mirzabekova, S. R. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 1995, 34, 474[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
35Wang, S.; Zhu, Z. H. Energy Fuels 2004, 18, 1126[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
36Ansari, M. B.; Park, S.-E. Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 9419[Crossref], Google Scholar
37Caspary, K. J.; Gehrke, H.; Heinritz-Adrian, M.; Schwefer, M. In Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis; Ertl, G.; Knozinger, H.; Weitkamp, J., Eds.; Wiley-VHC Verlag GmbH: Weinheim, Germany, 2008; pp 3206– 3229.Google Scholar
38Pujadó, P. R.; Vora, B. V. Hydrocarbon Process. 1990, 69, 65[CAS], Google Scholar
39Buyanov, R. A.; Pakhomov, N. A. Kinet. Catal. 2001, 42, 64[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
40Altani, A. M. Oil Gas Eur. Mag. 2004, 30, 36Google Scholar
41Tinnemans, S. J. Combined operando Raman/UV-Vis-NIR spectroscopy as a tool to study supported metal oxide catalysts at work. Ph.D. Thesis, Utrecht University, 2006.Google Scholar
42Research and Markets: China Propylene Market, 2013–2015, http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20130913005218/en/Research-Markets-China-Propylene-Market-2013-2015 (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
43Ondrey, G. UOP’s C3 Oleflex process selected for propylene plant in the U.S. Gulf Coast, http://www.che.com/only_on_che/latest_news/UOPs-C3-Oleflex-process-selected-for-propylene-plant-in-the-U-S-Gulf-Coast_10539.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
44Boswell, C. On-purpose technologies ready to fill propylene gap, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/04/16/9549968/on-purpose-technologies-ready-to-fill-propylene-gap.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
45Yu, L.; Chen, K. China Insight: Propane dehydrogenation projects boom, but risks loom, http://www.icis.com/Articles/2012/04/02/9546232/China-Insight-Propane-dehydrogenation-projects-boom-but-risks.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
46CATOFIN Dehydrogenation, http://www.cbi.com/images/uploads/tech_sheets/CatofinDehyrogenation-12.pdf (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
47Ercan, C.; Gartside, R. J. Can. J. Chem. Eng. 1996, 74, 626[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
48Sanfilippo, D.; Miracca, I. In Proceedings of the DGMK Conference “Oxidation and Functionalization: Classical and Alternative Routes and Sources”; Ernst, S.; Gallei, E.; Lercher, J. A.; Rossini, S.; Santacesaria, E., Eds.; German Society for Petroleum and Coal Science and Technology (DGMK): Hamburg, 2005; p 773.Google Scholar
49Nijhuis, T. A.; Tinnemans, S. J.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2004, 59, 5487[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
50UOP Oleflex process for light olefin production, http://pet-oil.blogspot.nl/2012/10/uop-oleflex-process-for-light-olefin.html (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
51Honeywell’s UOP Technology Selected For Petrochemical Production In China, http://www.dailyfinance.com/rtn/pr/honeywell-s-uop-technology-selected-for-petrochemical-production-in-china/rfid637412763/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
52CCR Platforming & Oleflex, http://www.uop.com/products/equipment/ccr-regeneration/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
53New Clariant CATOFIN Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts Delivers Significant Savings, http://newsroom.clariant.com/new-clariant-catofin-propane-dehydrogenation-catalyst-delivers-significant-savings/ (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
54Sanfilippo, D.; Miracca, I.; Trifiro, F. In Encyclopedia of Hydrocarbons: Refining and Petrochemicals; Amadei, C., Ed.; ENI: Rome, 2006; Vol. II, pp 687– 700.Google Scholar
55Jensen, S. F.; Roennekleiv, M.; Rytter, E.; Souraker, P. International Patent WO 2000072967 A1, 2000.Google Scholar
56The Uhde STAR process: Oxydehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, http://www.thyssenkrupp-uhde.de/fileadmin/documents/brochures/uhde_brochures_pdf_en_12.pdf (accessed Oct 23, 2013) .Google Scholar
57Sinfelt, J. H. J. Phys. Chem. 1964, 68, 344[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
58Cortright, R. D.; Watwe, R. M.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 163, 91[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
59Willems, P. A.; Froment, G. F. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1988, 27, 1966[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
60Olah, G. A.; Molnar, A. Hydrocarbon Chemistry, 2nd ed.; Wiley Inc.: Hoboken, NJ, 2003; pp 30– 37.[Crossref], Google Scholar
61Rahimi, N.; Karimzadeh, R. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 398, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
62Barron, Y.; Maire, G.; Muller, J. M.; Gault, F. G. J. Catal. 1966, 5, 428[Crossref], Google Scholar
63Garin, F.; Aeiyach, S.; Legare, P.; Maire, G. J. Catal. 1982, 77, 323[Crossref], Google Scholar
64Olah, G. A.; Molnar, A. Hydrocarbon Chemistry, 2nd ed.; Wiley Inc.: Hoboken, NJ, 2003; pp 161– 185.[Crossref], Google Scholar
65Grasselli, R. K. Catal. Today 1999, 24, 141[Crossref], Google Scholar
66Dittmeyer, R.; Höllein, V.; Daub, K. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2001, 173, 135[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
67Ravanchi, M. T.; Kaghazchi, T.; Kargari, A. Desalination 2009, 235, 199[Crossref], Google Scholar
68Sheintuch, M.; Simakov, D. S. A. In Membrane Reactors for Hydrogen Production Processes; De Falco, M.; Marrelli, L.; Iaquaniello, G., Eds.; Springer-Verlag Ltd.: London, 2011; pp 183– 200.[Crossref], Google Scholar
69Rioux, R. M.; Song, H.; Hoefelmeyer, J. D.; Yang, P.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2192[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
70Song, H.; Rioux, R. M.; Hoefelmeyer, J. D.; Komor, R.; Niesz, K.; Grass, M.; Yang, P.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 3027[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
71Santhosh Kumar, M.; Chen, D.; Walmsley, J. C.; Holmen, A. Catal. Commun. 2008, 20, 747[Crossref], Google Scholar
72Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 3257[Crossref], Google Scholar
73Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 771[Crossref], Google Scholar
74Spivey, J. J.; Roberts, G. W.; Goodwin, J. G.; Kim, S.; Rhodes, W. D. In Catalysis; Spivey, J. J.; Roberts, G. W., Eds.; The Royal Society of Chemistry: London, 2004; pp 320– 348.Google Scholar
75Yang, M.-L.; Zhu, Y.-A.; Fan, C.; Sui, Z.-J.; Chen, D.; Zhou, X.-G. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2010, 321, 42[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
76Fiedorow, R. M. J.; Chahar, B. S.; Wanke, S. E. J. Catal. 1978, 51, 193[Crossref], Google Scholar
77Moulijn, J. A.; van Diepen, A. E.; Kapteijn, F. Appl. Catal., A 2001, 212, 3[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
78Nagai, Y.; Hirabayashi, T.; Dohmae, K.; Takagi, N.; Minami, T.; Shinjoh, H.; Matsumoto, S. J. Catal. 2006, 242, 103[Crossref], Google Scholar
79Adler, S. F.; Keavney, J. J. J. Phys. Chem. 1960, 64, 208[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
80Lieske, H.; Lietz, G.; Spindler, H.; Völter, J. J. Catal. 1983, 81, 8[Crossref], Google Scholar
81Lee, T. J.; Kim, Y. G. J. Catal. 1984, 90, 279[Crossref], Google Scholar
82Le Normand, F.; Borgna, A.; Garetto, T. F.; Apesteguia, C. R.; Moraweck, B. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 9068[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
83Monzon, A.; Garetto, T. F.; Borgna, A. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 248, 279[Crossref], Google Scholar
84Bocanegra, S. A.; Castro, A. A.; Guerrero-Ruíz, A.; Scelza, O. A.; de Miguel, S. R. Chem. Eng. J. 2006, 118, 161[Crossref], Google Scholar
85Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Shi, J.; Zhou, S.; Sheng, X.; Zhang, Z.; Xiang, S. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2014, 381, 138[Crossref], Google Scholar
86Casella, M. L.; Siri, G. J.; Santori, G. F.; Ferretti, O. A.; Ramirez-Corredores, M. M. Langmuir 2000, 16, 5639[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
87Siri, G. J.; Bertolini, G. R.; Casella, M. L.; Ferretti, O. A. Mater. Lett. 2005, 59, 2319[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
88De Miguel, S. R.; Bocanegra, S. A.; Vilella, I. M. J.; Guerrero-Ruíz, A.; Scelza, O. A. Catal. Lett. 2007, 119, 5[Crossref], Google Scholar
89Tasbihi, M.; Feyzi, F.; Amlashi, M. A.; Abdullah, A. Z.; Mohamed, A. R. Fuel Process. Technol. 2007, 88, 883[Crossref], Google Scholar
90Rennard, R. J.; Freel, J. J. Catal. 1986, 98, 235[Crossref], Google Scholar
91Aguilar-Rios, G.; Valenzuela, M. A.; Armendariz, H.; Salas, P.; Domínguez, J. M.; Acosta, D. R.; Schifter, I. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 90, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
92Bocanegra, S. A.; Guerrero-Ruíz, A.; de Miguel, S. R.; Scelza, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 277, 11[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
93Lai, Y.; He, S.; Li, X.; Sun, C.; Seshan, K. Appl. Catal., A 2014, 469, 74[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
94Mironenko, R. M.; Belskaya, O. B.; Talsi, V. P.; Gulyaeva, T. I.; Kazakov, M. O.; Nizovskii, A. I.; Kalinkin, A. V.; Bukhtiyarov, V. I.; Lavrenov, A. V.; Likholobov, V. A. Appl. Catal., A 2014, 469, 472[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
95Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., A 1995, 129, 101[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
96Cortright, R. D.; Levin, P. E.; Dumesic, J. A. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1998, 37, 1717[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
97Hill, J. M.; Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 168, 9[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
98Cortright, R. D.; Hill, J. M.; Dumesic, J. A. Catal. Today 2000, 55, 213[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
99Azzam, K. G.; Jacobs, G.; Shafer, W. D.; Davis, B. H. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 390, 264[Crossref], Google Scholar
100Biscardi, J. A.; Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 1999, 182, 117[Crossref], Google Scholar
101Azzam, K. G.; Jacobs, G.; Shafer, W. D.; Davis, B. H. J. Catal. 2010, 270, 242[Crossref], Google Scholar
102Waku, T.; Biscardi, J. A.; Iglesia, E. Chem. Commun. 2003, 9, 1764[Crossref], Google Scholar
103Li, X.; Iglesia, E. Chem. Commun. 2008, 8, 594[Crossref], Google Scholar
104Lieske, H.; Sárkány, A.; Völter, J. Appl. Catal. 1987, 30, 69[Crossref], Google Scholar
105Wu, J.; Peng, Z.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2014, 311, 161[Crossref], Google Scholar
106Virnovskaia, A.; Morandi, S.; Rytter, E.; Ghiotti, G.; Olsbye, U. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 14732[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
107Nagaraja, B. M.; Shin, C.-H.; Jung, K.-D. Appl. Catal., A 2013, 467, 211[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
108Boudart, M.; Aldag, A.; Benson, J. E.; Dougharty, N. A.; Girvin Harkins, C. J. Catal. 1966, 6, 92[Crossref], Google Scholar
109Cardona-Martinez, N.; Dumesic, J. A. Adv. Catal. 1992, 38, 149[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
110Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Anderson, J. A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Catal. Today 2007, 123, 235[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
111Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Coloma, F.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Anderson, J. A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Catal. Today 2008, 133–135, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
112Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Anderson, J. A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 917[Crossref], Google Scholar
113Soares, O. S. G. P.; Órfão, J. J. M.; Ruiz-Martínez, J.; Silvestre-Albero, J.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Pereira, M. F. R. Chem. Eng. J. 2010, 165, 78[Crossref], Google Scholar
114Yang, M.; Zhu, Y.; Zhou, X.; Sui, Z.; Chen, D. ACS Catal. 2012, 2, 1247[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
115Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Catal. 1995, 157, 576[Crossref], Google Scholar
116Natal-Santiago, M. A.; Podkolzin, S. G.; Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. Catal. Lett. 1997, 45, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
117Shen, J.; Hill, J. M.; Watwe, R. M.; Spiewak, B. E.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 3923[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
118Nykänen, L.; Honkala, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 9578[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
119Gao, J.; Zhao, H.; Yang, X.; Koel, B. E.; Podkolzin, S. G. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 3641[Crossref], Google Scholar
120Siri, G. J.; Ramallo-López, J. M.; Casella, M. L.; Fierro, J. L. G.; Requejo, F. G.; Ferretti, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 278, 239[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
121Fearon, J.; Watson, G. W. J. Mater. Chem. 2006, 16, 1989[Crossref], Google Scholar
122Iglesias-Juez, A.; Beale, A. M.; Maaijen, K.; Weng, T. C.; Glatzel, P.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2010, 276, 268[Crossref], Google Scholar
123Deng, L.; Shishido, T.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. Catal. Today 2013, 232, 33[Crossref], Google Scholar
124Silvestre-Albero, J.; Sanchez-Castillo, M. A.; He, R.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodriguez-Reinoso, F.; Dumesic, J. A. Catal. Lett. 2001, 74, 17[Crossref], Google Scholar
125Silvestre-Albero, J.; Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 292, 244[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
126De Cola, P. L.; Gläser, R.; Weitkamp, J. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 306, 85[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
127Yu, C.; Xu, H.; Ge, Q.; Li, W. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2007, 266, 80[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
128Silvestre-Albero, J.; Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. Appl. Catal., A 2008, 351, 16[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
129Vu, B. K.; Song, M. B.; Ahn, I. Y.; Suh, Y.-W.; Suh, D. J.; Kim, W.-I.; Koh, H.-L.; Choi, Y. G.; Shin, E. W. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 400, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
130Jablonski, E. L.; Castro, A. A.; Scelza, O. A.; de Miguel, S. R. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 183, 189[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
131Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 192[Crossref], Google Scholar
132Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Galvita, V.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2010, 274, 200[Crossref], Google Scholar
133Sun, P.; Siddiqi, G.; Vining, W. C.; Chi, M.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2011, 282, 165[Crossref], Google Scholar
134Ballarini, A. D.; de Miguel, S. R.; Castro, A. A.; Scelza, O. A. Appl. Catal., A 2013, 467, 235[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
135Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Sepúlveda-Escribano, A.; Rodríguez-Reinoso, F. J. Catal. 2007, 246, 158[Crossref], Google Scholar
136Barias, O. A.; Holmen, A.; Blekkan, E. A. J. Catal. 1996, 158, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
137Salmones, J.; Wang, J.-A.; Galicia, J. A.; Aguilar-Rios, G. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2002, 184, 203[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
138Zhou, Y.; Davis, M. D. U.S. Patent 5214227, 1993.Google Scholar
139Barri, S. A. I.; Tahir, R. U.S. Patent 5126502, 1992.Google Scholar
140Stagg, S. M.; Querini, C. A.; Alvarez, W. E.; Resasco, D. E. J. Catal. 1997, 168, 75[Crossref], Google Scholar
141Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Huang, L.; Xue, M.; Zhang, S. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2011, 50, 7896[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
142Duan, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Sheng, X.; Xue, M. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 120[Crossref], Google Scholar
143Frey, F. E.; Huppke, W. F. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1933, 25, 54[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
144Olsbye, U.; Virnovskaia, A.; Prytz, Ø.; Tinnemans, S. J.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Catal. Lett. 2005, 103, 143[Crossref], Google Scholar
145Weckhuysen, B. M.; de Ridder, L. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97, 4756[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
146Weckhuysen, B. M.; Schoonheydt, R. A.; Mabbs, F. E.; Collison, D. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 2431[Crossref], Google Scholar
147Cavani, F.; Koutyrev, M.; Trifiro, F.; Bartolini, A.; Ghisletti, D.; Iezzi, R.; Santucci, A.; Del Piero, G. J. Catal. 1996, 158, 236[Crossref], Google Scholar
148Weckhuysen, B. M.; Wachs, I. E. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 1969[Crossref], Google Scholar
149Santhosh Kumar, M.; Hammer, N.; Ronning, M.; Holmen, A.; Chen, D.; Walmsley, J. C.; Oye, G. J. Catal. 2009, 261, 116[Crossref], Google Scholar
150Michorczyk, P.; Ogonowski, J.; Zeńczak, K. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2011, 349, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
151Weckhuysen, B. M.; Wachs, I. E. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 14437[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
152Weckhuysen, B. M.; Bensalem, A.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1998, 94, 2011[Crossref], Google Scholar
153Weckhuysen, B. M.; Verberckmoes, A. A.; Debaere, J.; Ooms, K.; Langhans, I.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 151, 115[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
154Marcilly, C.; Delmon, B. J. Catal. 1972, 24, 336[Crossref], Google Scholar
155Ashmawy, F. M. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1980, 76, 2096[Crossref], Google Scholar
156Lugo, H. J.; Lunsford, J. H. J. Catal. 1985, 91, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
157Grünert, W.; Saffert, W.; Feldhaus, R.; Anders, K. J. Catal. 1986, 99, 149[Crossref], Google Scholar
158Selwood, P. W. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1970, 92, 39[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
159Cimino, A.; Cordischi, D.; De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Gazzoli, D.; Indovina, V.; Minelli, G.; Occhiuzzi, M.; Valigi, M. J. Catal. 1991, 127, 744[Crossref], Google Scholar
160Bruckner, A.; Radnik, J.; Hoang, D. L.; Lieske, H. Catal. Lett. 1999, 60, 183[Crossref], Google Scholar
161Mimura, N.; Okamoto, M.; Yamashita, H.; Oyama, S. T.; Murata, K. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 21764[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
162Pérez-Reina, F. J.; Rodríguez-Castellón, E.; Jiménez-López, A. Langmuir 1999, 15, 8421[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
163Hakuli, A.; Kytökivi, A.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 190, 219[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
164Kytökivi, A.; Jacobs, J. P.; Hakuli, A.; Meriläinen, J.; Brongersma, H. H. J. Catal. 1996, 162, 190[Crossref], Google Scholar
165Michorczyk, P.; Pietrzyk, P.; Ogonowski, J. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2012, 161, 56[Crossref], Google Scholar
166Hakuli, A.; Kytökivi, A.; Krause, A. O. I.; Suntola, T. J. Catal. 1996, 161, 393[Crossref], Google Scholar
167De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Fremoiotti, S.; Garrone, E.; Ghiotti, G.; Campa, M. C.; Indovina, V. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 36[Crossref], Google Scholar
168De Rossi, S.; Casaletto, M. P.; Ferraris, G.; Cimino, A.; Minelli, G. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 167, 257[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
169Gaspar, A. B.; Brito, J. L. F.; Dieguez, L. C. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2003, 203, 251[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
170Zhang, X.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. Catal. Lett. 2002, 83, 19[Crossref], Google Scholar
171Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Kanervo, J. M.; Krause, A. O. I. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 2001, 136, 153[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
172Puurunen, R. L.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2002, 210, 418[Crossref], Google Scholar
173Nijhuis, T. A.; Tinnemans, S. J.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 4361[Crossref], Google Scholar
174Takehira, K.; Ohishi, Y.; Shishido, T.; Kawabata, T.; Takaki, K.; Zhang, Q.; Wang, Y. J. Catal. 2004, 224, 404[Crossref], Google Scholar
175Shi, X.; Ji, S.; Wang, K. Catal. Lett. 2008, 125, 331[Crossref], Google Scholar
176Michorczyk, P.; Ogonowski, J.; Niemczyk, M. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 374, 142[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
177Ma, F.; Chen, S.; Wang, Y.; Chen, F.; Lu, W. Appl. Catal., A 2012, 427–428, 145[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
178Shishido, T.; Shimamura, K.; Teramura, K.; Tanaka, T. Catal. Today 2012, 185, 151[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
179Yang, H.; Xu, L.; Ji, D.; Wang, Q.; Lin, L. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2002, 76, 151[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
180Tinnemans, S. J.; Kox, M. H. F.; Nijhuis, T. A.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 211[Crossref], Google Scholar
181De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Fremiotti, S.; Cimino, A.; Indovina, V. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 81, 113[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
182Puurunen, R. L.; Beheydt, B. G.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2001, 204, 253[Crossref], Google Scholar
183Weckhuysen, B. M.; De Ridder, L. M.; Grobet, P. J.; Schoonheydt, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. 1995, 99, 320[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
184Vuurman, M. A.; Hardcastle, F. D.; Wachs, I. E. J. Mol. Catal. 1993, 84, 193[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
185Simon, S.; van der Pol, A.; Reijerse, E. J.; Kentgens, A. P. M. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1995, 91, 1519[Crossref], Google Scholar
186El-Shobaky, H. G.; Ghozza, A. M.; El-Shobaky, G. A.; Mohamed, G. M. Colloids Surf., A 1999, 152, 315[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
187Wachowski, L.; Kirszensztejn, P.; Lopatka, R.; Czajka, B. Mater. Chem. Phys. 1994, 37, 29[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
188Rossignol, S.; Kappenstein, C. J. Inorg. Mater. 2001, 3, 52[Crossref], Google Scholar
189Zhao, H.; Song, H.; Xu, L.; Chou, L. Appl. Catal., A 2013, 456, 188[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
190De Rossi, S.; Ferraris, G.; Fremiotti, S.; Indovina, V.; Cimino, A. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 106, 125[Crossref], Google Scholar
191Fujdala, K.; Tilly, T. D. J. Catal. 2003, 218, 123[Crossref], Google Scholar
192Korhonen, S. T.; Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Banares, M. A.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., A 2007, 333, 30[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
193Martyanov, I.; Sayari, A. Catal. Lett. 2008, 126, 164[Crossref], Google Scholar
194Bibby, D. M.; Milestone, N. B.; Aldridge, L. Nature 1979, 280, 664[Crossref], Google Scholar
195Tsyganok, A.; Green, R. G.; Giorgi, J. B.; Sayari, A. Catal. Commun. 2007, 8, 2186[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
196Alcántara-Rodríguez, M.; Rodríguez-Castellón, E.; Jiménez-López, A. Langmuir 1999, 15, 1115[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
197Shee, D.; Sayari, A. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 389, 155[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
198Sattler, J. J. H. B.; González-Jiménez, I. D.; Mens, A. M.; Arias, M.; Visser, T.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Chem. Commun. 2013, 49, 1518[Crossref], Google Scholar
199Chaar, M. A.; Patel, D.; Kung, M. C.; Kung, H. H. J. Catal. 1987, 105, 483[Crossref], Google Scholar
200Wachs, I. E.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 157, 67[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
201Weckhuysen, B. M.; Keller, D. E. Catal. Today 2003, 78, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
202Volpe, M.; Tonetto, G.; de Lasa, H. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 272, 69[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
203Wu, Z.; Kim, H.-S.; Stair, P. C.; Rugmini, S.; Jackson, S. D. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2793[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
204Wu, Z.; Stair, P. J. Catal. 2006, 237, 220[Crossref], Google Scholar
205Jackson, S. D.; Rugmini, S. J. Catal. 2007, 251, 59[Crossref], Google Scholar
206McGregor, J.; Huang, Z.; Shiko, G.; Gladden, L. F.; Stein, R. S.; Duer, M. J.; Wu, Z.; Stair, P. C.; Rugmini, S.; Jackson, S. D. Catal. Today 2009, 142, 143[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
207Harlin, M. E.; Niemi, V. M.; Krause, A. O. I. J. Catal. 2000, 195, 67[Crossref], Google Scholar
208Harlin, M. E.; Niemi, V. M.; Krause, A. O. I.; Weckhuysen, B. M. J. Catal. 2001, 203, 242[Crossref], Google Scholar
209Takahara, I.; Saito, M.; Inaba, M.; Murata, K. Catal. Lett. 2005, 102, 201[Crossref], Google Scholar
210Steinfeldt, N.; Müller, D.; Berndt, H. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 272, 201[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
211Ogonowski, J.; Skrzyńska, E. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2006, 88, 293[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
212Ogonowski, J.; Skrzyńska, E. Catal. Lett. 2006, 111, 79[Crossref], Google Scholar
213Ogonowski, J.; Skrzyńska, E. Catal. Lett. 2008, 121, 234[Crossref], Google Scholar
214Sokolov, S.; Stoyanova, M.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Kondratenko, E. V. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2014, 4, 1323[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
215McGregor, J.; Huang, Z.; Parrott, E. P. J.; Zeitler, J. A.; Nguyen, K. L.; Rawson, J. M.; Carley, A.; Hansen, T. W.; Tessonnier, J.-P.; Su, D. S.; Teschner, D.; Vass, E. M.; Knop-Gericke, A.; Schlögl, R.; Gladden, L. F. J. Catal. 2010, 269, 329[Crossref], Google Scholar
216Russell, A. S.; Stokes, J. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1946, 38, 1071[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
217Xie, S.; Chen, K.; Bell, A. T.; Iglesia, E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 10059[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
218Harlin, M. E.; Backman, L. B.; Krause, A. O. I.; Jylhä, O. J. T. J. Catal. 1999, 183, 300[Crossref], Google Scholar
219López Cordero, R.; Gil Llambias, F. J.; López Agudo, A. Appl. Catal. 1991, 74, 125[Crossref], Google Scholar
220Mitchell, P. C. H.; Wass, S. A. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 225, 153[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
221Ledoux, M. J.; Meunier, F.; Heinrich, B.; Pham-huu, C.; Harlin, M. E.; Krause, A. O. I. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 181, 157[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
222Frank, B.; Cotter, T. P.; Schuster, M. E.; Schlögl, R.; Trunschke, A. Chem.—Eur. J. 2013, 19, 16938[Crossref], [PubMed], [CAS], Google Scholar
223Lee, J. S.; Oyama, S. T.; Boudart, M. J. Catal. 1987, 106, 125[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
224Harlin, M. E.; Krause, A. O. I.; Heinrich, B.; Pham-huu, C.; Ledoux, M. J. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 185, 311[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
225Gnep, N. S.; Doyemet, J. Y.; Seco, A. M.; Ribeiro, F. R.; Guisnet, M. Appl. Catal. 1988, 43, 155[Crossref], Google Scholar
226Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. J. Mol. Catal. 1989, 50, L7[Crossref], Google Scholar
227Price, G. L.; Kanazirev, V. J. Catal. 1990, 126, 267[Crossref], Google Scholar
228Meitzner, G. D.; Iglesia, E.; Baumgartner, J. E.; Huang, E. S. J. Catal. 1993, 140, 209[Crossref], Google Scholar
229Zheng, B.; Hua, W.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. J. Catal. 2005, 232, 143[Crossref], Google Scholar
230Nesterenko, N. S.; Ponomoreva, O. A.; Yuschenko, V. V.; Ivanova, I. I.; Testa, F.; Di Renzo, F.; Fajula, F. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 254, 261[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
231Liu, Y.; Li, Z. H.; Lu, J.; Fan, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 20382[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
232Chen, M.; Xu, J.; Su, F.; Liu, Y.; Cao, Y.; He, H.; Fan, K. J. Catal. 2008, 256, 293[Crossref], Google Scholar
233Xu, B.; Zheng, B.; Hua, W.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. J. Catal. 2006, 239, 470[Crossref], Google Scholar
234Xu, B.; Li, T.; Zheng, B.; Hua, W.; Yue, Y.; Gao, Z. Catal. Lett. 2007, 119, 283[Crossref], Google Scholar
235Michorczyk, P.; Ogonowski, J. Appl. Catal., A 2003, 251, 425[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
236Pidko, E. A.; Hensen, E. J. M.; van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 13068[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
237Takahara, I.; Saito, M.; Inaba, M.; Murata, K. Catal. Lett. 2004, 96, 29[Crossref], Google Scholar
238Rodríguez, L.; Romero, D.; Rodríguez, D.; Sánchez, J.; Domínguez, F.; Arteaga, G. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 373, 66[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
239Chao, K. J.; Wei, A. C.; Wu, H. C.; Lee, J. F. Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2000, 35–36, 413[Crossref], Google Scholar
240Butt, D. P.; Park, Y.; Taylor, T. N. J. Nucl. Mater. 1999, 264, 71[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
241Nakagawa, K.; Okamura, M.; Ikenaga, N.; Kobayashi, T. Chem. Commun. 1998, 3, 1025[Crossref], Google Scholar
242Nakagawa, K.; Kajita, C.; Okumura, K.; Ikenaga, N.; Nishitani-Gamo, M.; Ando, T.; Kobayashi, T.; Suzuki, T. J. Catal. 2001, 203, 87[Crossref], Google Scholar
243Li, H.; Yue, Y.; Miao, C.; Xie, Z.; Hua, W.; Gao, Z. Catal. Commun. 2007, 8, 1317[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
244Shen, Z.; Liu, J.; Xu, H.; Yue, Y.; Hua, W.; Shen, W. Appl. Catal., A 2009, 356, 148[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
245Michorczyk, P.; Kuśtrowski, P.; Kolak, A.; Zimowska, M. Catal. Commun. 2013, 35, 95[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
246Hensen, E. J. M.; Pidko, E. A.; Rane, N.; van Santen, R. A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 38, 7273[Crossref], Google Scholar
247Iezzi, R.; Bartolini, A.; Buonomo, F. U.S. Patent 0198428, 2002.Google Scholar
248Sattler, J. J. H. B.; González-Jiménez, I. D.; Luo, L.; Stears, B. A.; Malek, A.; Barton, D. G.; Kilos, B. A.; Kaminsky, M. P.; Verhoeven, M. W. G. M.; Koers, E. J.; Baldus, M.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 9251[Crossref], Google Scholar
249Saito, M.; Watanabe, S.; Takahara, I.; Inaba, M.; Murata, K. Catal. Lett. 2003, 89, 213[Crossref], Google Scholar
250Shimada, H.; Akazawa, T.; Ikenaga, N.; Suzuki, T. Appl. Catal., A 1998, 168, 243[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
251Wang, R.; Sun, X.; Zhang, B.; Sun, X.; Su, D. Chem.—Eur. J. 2014, 20, 1[Crossref], Google Scholar
252Zhang, J.; Liu, X.; Blume, R.; Zhang, A.; Schlögl, R.; Su, D. S. Science 2008, 322, 73[Crossref], Google Scholar
253Chen, C.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, B.; Yu, C.; Peng, F.; Su, D. Chem. Commun. 2013, 49, 8151[Crossref], Google Scholar
254Liu, L.; Deng, Q.-F.; Agula, B.; Zhao, X.; Ren, T.-Z.; Yuan, Z.-Y. Chem. Commun. 2011, 47, 8334[Crossref], Google Scholar
255Levi, R. B.; Boudart, M. Science 1973, 181, 547[Crossref], Google Scholar
256Neylon, M. K.; Choi, S.; Kwon, H.; Curry, K. E.; Thompson, L. T. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 183, 253[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
257Wang, G.; Li, C.; Shan, H. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 1139[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
258Perdigon-Melon, J.; Gervasini, A.; Auroux, A. J. Catal. 2005, 234, 421[Crossref], Google Scholar
259Halász, J.; Kónya, Z.; Fudala, Á.; Béres, A.; Kiricsi, I. Catal. Today 1996, 5861, 293[Crossref], Google Scholar
260Chen, M.; Xu, J.; Liu, Y.-M.; Cao, Y.; He, H.-Y.; Zhuang, J.-H. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 377, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
261Chen, M.; Wu, J.-L.; Liu, Y.-M.; Cao, Y.; Guo, L.; He, H.-Y.; Fan, K.-N. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 407, 20[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
262Chen, M.; Xu, J.; Cao, Y.; He, H.-Y.; Fan, K.-N.; Zhuang, J.-H. J. Catal. 2010, 272, 101[Crossref], Google Scholar
263Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Chen, D. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 398, 18[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
264Wenner, R. R.; Dybal, E. C. Catal. Eng. Prog. 1948, 45, 275Google Scholar
265Stobbe, D. E.; van Buren, F. R.; Hoogenraad, M. S.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1991, 87, 1639[Crossref], Google Scholar
266Stobbe, D. E.; van Buren, F. R.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W. J. Catal. 1992, 562, 548[Crossref], Google Scholar
267Boot, L. A.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W.; van Buren, F. R. J. Catal. 1996, 163, 186[Crossref], Google Scholar
268Boot, L. A.; van Dillen, A. J.; Geus, J. W.; van Buren, F. R. J. Catal. 1996, 163, 195[Crossref], Google Scholar
269Sun, Y.; Tao, L.; You, T.; Li, C.; Shan, H. Chem. Eng. J. 2014, 244, 145[Crossref], Google Scholar
270Yun, J. H.; Lobo, R. F. J. Catal. 2014, 312, 263[Crossref], Google Scholar
271Guisnet, M.; Gnep, N. S.; Alario, F. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 89, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
272Almutairi, S. M. T.; Mezari, B.; Magusin, P. C. M. M.; Pidko, E. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. ACS Catal. 2012, 2, 71[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
273Biscardi, A.; Iglesia, E. Catal. Today. 1996, 31, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
274Mole, T.; Anderson, J. R.; Creer, G. Appl. Catal. 1985, 17, 141[Crossref], Google Scholar
275Wang, L.; Tao, L.; Xie, M.; Xu, G.; Huang, J.; Xu, Y. Catal. Lett. 1993, 21, 35[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
276Biscardi, J. A.; Meitzner, G. D.; Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 1998, 202, 192[Crossref], Google Scholar
277Aleksandrov, H. A.; Vayssilov, G. N. Catal. Today 2010, 152, 78[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
278Kazansky, V. B.; Subbotina, I. R.; Rane, N.; van Santen, R. A.; Hensen, E. J. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 3088[Crossref], Google Scholar
279Kazansky, V. B.; Pidko, E. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2103[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
280Pidko, E. A.; Van Santen, R. A. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 2643[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
281Eastman, A. D. U.S. Patent 4327238, 1980.Google Scholar
282Eastman, A. D. U.S. Patent 4371730, 1983.Google Scholar
283Chen, Z. X.; Derking, A.; Koot, W.; van Dijk, M. P. J. Catal. 1996, 161, 730[Crossref], Google Scholar
284Schweitzer, N. M.; Hu, B.; Das, U.; Kim, H.; Curtiss, L. A.; Stair, P. C.; Miller, T.; Hock, A. S. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 1091[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
285Horiuti, I.; Polanyi, M. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1934, 30, 1164[Crossref], Google Scholar
286Biloen, P.; Dautzenberg, F. M.; Sachtler, W. M. H. J. Catal. 1977, 50, 77[Crossref], Google Scholar
287Chen, K.; Iglesia, E.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2000, 192, 197[Crossref], Google Scholar
288Sokolov, S.; Stoyanova, M.; Rodemerck, U.; Linke, D.; Kondratenko, E. V. J. Catal. 2012, 293, 67[Crossref], Google Scholar
289Hauser, A. W.; Gomes, J.; Bajdich, M.; Head-Gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 20727[Crossref], Google Scholar
290Galvita, V.; Siddiqi, G.; Sun, P.; Bell, A. T. J. Catal. 2010, 271, 209[Crossref], Google Scholar
291Virnovskaia, A.; Rytter, E.; Olsbye, U. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2008, 47, 7167[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
292Zaera, F.; Chrysostomou, D. Surf. Sci. 2000, 457, 71[Crossref], Google Scholar
293Zaera, F.; Chrysostomou, D. Surf. Sci. 2000, 457, 89[Crossref], Google Scholar
294Chrysostomou, D.; Zaera, F. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 1003[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
295Valcarcel, A.; Ricart, J.; Clotet, A.; Illas, F.; Markovits, A.; Minot, C. J. Catal. 2006, 241, 115[Crossref], Google Scholar
296Watwe, R. M.; Spiewak, B. E.; Cortright, R. D.; Dumesic, J. A. J. Catal. 1998, 180, 184[Crossref], Google Scholar
297Chrysostomou, D.; Chou, A.; Zaera, F. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 5968[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
298Ohtani, T.; Kubota, J.; Kondo, J. N.; Hirose, C.; Domen, K. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 4562[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
299De La Cruz, C.; Sheppard, N. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1997, 93, 3569[Crossref], Google Scholar
300Essen, J. M.; Haubrich, J.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. Surf. Sci. 2007, 601, 3472[Crossref], Google Scholar
301Cremer, P. S.; Su, X.; Shen, Y. R.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 2942[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
302Cremer, P. S.; Stanners, C.; Niemantsverdriet, J. W.; Shen, Y. R.; Somorjai, G. A. Surf. Sci. 1995, 328, 111[Crossref], Google Scholar
303Zaera, F.; Janssens, T. V. W.; Ofner, H. Surf. Sci. 1996, 368, 371[Crossref], Google Scholar
304Nykanen, L.; Honkala, K. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 3026[ACS Full Text ], [CAS], Google Scholar
305Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Harlin, M. E.; Krause, A. O. I. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2002, 41, 5619[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
306Lillehaug, S.; Børve, K. J.; Sierka, M.; Sauer, J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2004, 17, 990[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
307Lillehaug, S.; Jensen, V. R.; Børve, K. J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2006, 19, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
308Carra, S.; Forni, L.; Vintani, C. J. Catal. 1967, 9, 154[Crossref], Google Scholar
309Kao, J. Y.; Piet-Lahanier, H.; Walter, E.; Happel, J. J. Catal. 1992, 133, 383[Crossref], Google Scholar
310Suzuki, I.; Kaneko, Y. J. Catal. 1977, 47, 239[Crossref], Google Scholar
311Airaksinen, S. M. K.; Banares, M. A.; Krause, A. O. I. J. Catal. 2005, 230, 507[Crossref], Google Scholar
312Conley, M. P.; Delley, M. F.; Siddiqi, G.; Lapadula, G.; Norsic, S.; Monteil, V.; Safonova, O. V.; Copéret, C. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 1872[Crossref], Google Scholar
313Delley, M. F.; Conley, M. P.; Copéret, C. Catal. Lett. 2014, 144, 805[Crossref], Google Scholar
314Lillehaug, S.; Børve, K. J.; Sierka, M.; Sauer, J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2004, 17, 990[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
315Lillehaug, S.; Jensen, V. R.; Børve, K. J. J. Phys. Org. Chem. 2006, 19, 25[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
316Kazansky, V. B.; Subbotina, I. R.; Pronin, A. A.; Schlögl, R.; Jentoft, F. C. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 7975[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
317Noda, H.; Tone, S.; Otake, T. J. Chem. Eng. Jpn. 1973, 7, 1974Google Scholar
318Toei, R.; Nakanishi, K.; Yamada, K.; Okazaki, M. J. Chem. Eng. Jpn. 1975, 8, 131[Crossref], Google Scholar
319Swift, H. E.; Beuther, H.; Rennard, R. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 1976, 15, 131[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
320Menon, P. G. J. Mol. Catal. 1990, 59, 207[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
321Chen, Y.; Vlachos, D. G. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 4973[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
322Wang, B.; Ma, X.; Caffio, M.; Schaub, R.; Li, W.-X. Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 424[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
323Otero, G.; González, C.; Pinardi, A. L.; Merino, P.; Gardonio, S.; Lizzit, S.; Blanco-Rey, M.; Van de Ruit, K.; Flipse, C. F. J.; Méndez, J.; de Andrés, P. L.; Martín-Gago, J. A. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2010, 105, 216102[Crossref], Google Scholar
324Larsson, M.; Hulten, M.; Blekkan, E. A.; Andersson, B. J. Catal. 1996, 164, 44[Crossref], Google Scholar
325Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Zhu, Y.; Zhou, J.; Chen, D. Top. Catal. 2011, 54, 888[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
326Land, T. A.; Michely, T.; Behm, R. J.; Hemminger, J. C. Surf. Sci. 1992, 264, 261[Crossref], Google Scholar
327Li, Q.; Sui, Z.; Zhou, X.; Chen, D. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 398, 18[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
328Sattler, J. J. H. B.; Beale, A. M.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 12085[Crossref], Google Scholar
329Malleswara Rao, T. V.; Deo, G.; Jehng, J.-M.; Wachs, I. E. Langmuir 2004, 20, 7159[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
330Ruettinger, W.; Benderly, A.; Han, S.; Shen, X.; Ding, Y.; Suib, S. L. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 15[Crossref], Google Scholar
331Zhu, Q.; Takiguchi, M.; Setoyama, T.; Yokoi, T.; Kondo, J. N.; Tatsumi, T. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 670[Crossref], Google Scholar
332Grasselli, G. R.; Stern, D. L.; Tsikoyiannis, J. G. Appl. Catal., A 1999, 189, 1[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
333Van der Zande, L. M.; de Graaf, E. A.; Rothenberg, G. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2002, 344, 884[Crossref], Google Scholar
334Låte, L.; Thelin, W.; Blekkan, E. A. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 262, 63[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
335Waku, T.; Biscardi, J. A.; Iglesia, E. J. Catal. 2004, 222, 481[Crossref], Google Scholar
336Låte, L.; Rundereim, J. I.; Blekkan, E. A. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 262, 53[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
337Kikuchi, E.; Uemiya, S.; Sato, N.; Inoue, H.; Ando, H.; Matsuda, T. Chem. Lett. 1989, 18, 489[Crossref], Google Scholar
338Matsuda, T.; Koike, I.; Kubo, N.; Kikuchi, E. J. Membr. Sci. 1993, 77, 283[Crossref], Google Scholar
339Collins, J. P.; Schwartz, R. W.; Sehgal, R.; Ward, T. L.; Brinker, C. J.; Hagen, G. P.; Udovich, C. A. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1996, 35, 4398[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
340Kiwi-Minsker, L.; Wolfrath, O.; Renken, A. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2002, 57, 4947[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
341Sznejer, G.; Sheintuch, M. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2004, 59, 2013[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
342Bobrov, V. S.; Digurov, N. G.; Skudin, V. V. J. Membr. Sci. 2005, 253, 233[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
343Liang, W.; Hughes, R. Catal. Today 2005, 104, 238[Crossref], [CAS], Google Scholar
344Medrano, J. A.; Julia, I.; Garc, F. R.; Li, K.; Herguido, J.; Mene, M. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2013, 52, 3723[ACS Full Text ], Google Scholar
345Chua, Y. T.; Stair, P. C. J. Catal. 2003, 213, 39[Crossref], Google Scholar
346Bennici, S. M.; Vogelaar, B. M.; Nijhuis, T. A.; Weckhuysen, B. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 5412[Crossref], Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
41
Mentioning
1533
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 1316 publications.
Alberto Ricchebuono, Eleonora Vottero, Andrea Piovano, Elena Groppo, Pascal Raybaud, Céline Chizallet. Assessing Low-Cost Computational Methods against Structural Properties and Size Effects of Pt nanoparticles. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (37) , 18454-18465. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c02799
Hossein Mohammadzadeh, Ahmad Shariati, Mohammadreza Khosravi-Nikou. Experimental Investigation of the Performance and Catalytic Properties of xFe2O3/ZrO2 Mesoporous Catalysts in Propane Dehydrogenation in the Presence of CO2. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (37) , 14947-14962. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c01441
Satoshi Misaki, Hiroko Ariga-Miwa, Takashi U. Ito, Takefumi Yoshida, Shingo Hasegawa, Yukina Nakamura, Shunta Tokutake, Moe Takabatake, Koichiro Shimomura, Wang-Jae Chun, Yuichi Manaka, Ken Motokura. Pd Nanoparticles on the Outer Surface of Microporous Aluminosilicates for the Direct Alkylation of Benzenes using Alkanes. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (18) , 12281-12287. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02309
Zixuan Chen, Nora K. Zimmerli, Muhammad Zubair, Alexander V. Yakimov, Snædís Björgvinsdóttir, Nicholas Alaniva, Elena Willinger, Alexander B. Barnes, Nicholas M. Bedford, Christophe Copéret, Pierre Florian, Paula M. Abdala, Alexey Fedorov, Christoph R. Müller. Nature of GaOx Shells Grown on Silica by Atomic Layer Deposition. Chemistry of Materials 2023, Article ASAP.
Shuo Peng, Shuang Liu, Qing Chen, Shaobo Han, Gao Li, Wenjie Shen. Silica-Confined Pt3Sn Clusters for Propane Dehydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (33) , 12915-12924. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c01334
Charles H. Fricke, Olajide H. Bamidele, Mubarak Bello, Jawad Chowdhury, Gabriel Terejanu, Andreas Heyden. Modeling the Effect of Surface Platinum–Tin Alloys on Propane Dehydrogenation on Platinum–Tin Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (16) , 10627-10640. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00939
Yingbin Zheng, Junjie Li, Xinbao Zhang, Jie An, Wenjie Xin, Xiangxue Zhu, Xiujie Li. Effect of CO2 Co-Feeding on the Stabilization of Atomically Dispersed Iron Species over MgAl2O4 During Ethane Dehydrogenation Reactions. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (16) , 11153-11163. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02029
Zisheng Zhang, Ive Hermans, Anastassia N. Alexandrova. Off-Stoichiometric Restructuring and Sliding Dynamics of Hexagonal Boron Nitride Edges in Conditions of Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (31) , 17265-17273. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c04613
Lukas Rochlitz, Jörg W. A. Fischer, Quentin Pessemesse, Adam H. Clark, Anton Ashuiev, Daniel Klose, Pierre-Adrien Payard, Gunnar Jeschke, Christophe Copéret. Ti-Doping in Silica-Supported PtZn Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts: From Improved Stability to the Nature of the Pt–Ti Interaction. JACS Au 2023, 3 (7) , 1939-1951. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.3c00197
Xiaofeng Gao, Mingjie Liu, Yongkang Huang, Wenhao Xu, Xian Zhou, Siyu Yao. Dimensional Understanding of Boron-Based Catalysts for Oxidative Propane Dehydrogenation: Structure and Mechanism. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (14) , 9667-9687. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00728
Qiang Zhou, Ziyi Liu, Lihan Zhu, Wenduo Lu, Lei He, Dongqi Wang. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane on Boron Phosphate: A Computational Mechanistic Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (27) , 12942-12952. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c00838
Fan Xu, Haolin Li, Bingyu Tian, Kun Cui, Rui Dong, Mingjin Fan, Meirong Cai, Feng Zhou, Weimin Liu. Achieving Greener, Super-Robust Performance Water-Based Lubrication: Obtained by a Multifunctional Ionic Liquid Aqueous System and Formation of Unique Interfacial Interactions. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2023, 11 (23) , 8651-8666. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.3c01843
Swarup K. Maiti, Kirk Snavely, Anand Ramanathan, Jihad Dakka, Partha Nandi, David B. Spry, Bala Subramaniam. Direct Tertiary Butyl Alcohol Formation via Catalytic Liquid Phase Isobutane Oxidation with Molecular Oxygen. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, Article ASAP.
Bernard Whajah, Joseph N. Heil, Cameron L. Roman, James A. Dorman, Kerry M. Dooley. Zeolite Supported Pt for Depolymerization of Polyethylene by Induction Heating. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2023, 62 (22) , 8635-8643. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c04568
Yuchen Zhang, Yichen Yu, Yi Dai, Yaoyuan Zhang, Qi Liu, Dong Xiong, Lixia Bao, Qin Wu, Daxin Shi, Kangcheng Chen, Yuming Li, Guiyuan Jiang, Evgenii V. Kondratenko, Hansheng Li. Regulating the C–H Bond Activation Pathway over ZrO2 via Doping Engineering for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (10) , 6893-6904. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c01002
Qiang Zhang, Shiqin Gao, Jihong Yu. Metal Sites in Zeolites: Synthesis, Characterization, and Catalysis. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (9) , 6039-6106. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00315
Yuki Nakaya, Shinya Furukawa. Catalysis of Alloys: Classification, Principles, and Design for a Variety of Materials and Reactions. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (9) , 5859-5947. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00356
Shaojia Song, Yuanqing Sun, Kun Yang, Yumeng Fo, Xiangyang Ji, Hui Su, Zhenxing Li, Chunming Xu, Guoyong Huang, Jian Liu, Weiyu Song. Recent Progress in Metal-Molecular Sieve Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (9) , 6044-6067. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00816
Yiyi Xu, Sai Chen, Xin Chang, Xianhui Wang, Guodong Sun, Zhenpu Lu, Zhi-Jian Zhao, Chunlei Pei, Jinlong Gong. Ultrathin TiOx Nanosheets Rich in Tetracoordinated Ti Sites for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (9) , 6104-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00818
Lichen Liu, Avelino Corma. Bimetallic Sites for Catalysis: From Binuclear Metal Sites to Bimetallic Nanoclusters and Nanoparticles. Chemical Reviews 2023, 123 (8) , 4855-4933. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00733
Chunguang Dong, Zhuangzhuang Lai, Haifeng Wang. Comprehensive Mechanism and Microkinetic Model-Driven Rational Screening of 3N-Modulated Single-Atom Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (8) , 5529-5537. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00889
Zihao Zhang, Jinshu Tian, Xiangkun Wu, Ivan Surin, Javier Pérez-Ramírez, Patrick Hemberger, Andras Bodi. Unraveling Radical and Oxygenate Routes in the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over Boron Nitride. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2023, 145 (14) , 7910-7917. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c12970
Yong Yuan, Raul F. Lobo. Zinc Speciation and Propane Dehydrogenation in Zn/H-ZSM-5 Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4971-4984. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05898
Tangkang Liu, Di Xu, Mengyang Song, Xinlin Hong, Guoliang Liu. K–ZrO2 Interfaces Boost CO2 Hydrogenation to Higher Alcohols. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4667-4674. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00074
Ming-Lei Sun, Zhong-Pan Hu, Hao-Yu Wang, Yu-Jun Suo, Zhong-Yong Yuan. Design Strategies of Stable Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4719-4741. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00103
Lihan Zhu, Ziyi Liu, Qiang Zhou, Wen-Duo Lu, Dongqi Wang. Propane Oxidative Dehydrogenation on Nanosized Boron Carbide: Effect of Boron Content and Its Oxidation Implicated by DFT Calculations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (13) , 6280-6293. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c08586
Xiao Jiang, Bar Mosevitzky Lis, Yiqing Wu, Israel E. Wachs, Zili Wu. Effect of the Molecular Structure of Surface Vanadia on Activity and Regenerability of VOx/In2O3 Catalysts for CO2-Assisted Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2023, 127 (13) , 6311-6320. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c00183
Xintong Lv, Min Yang, Shaojia Song, Mingji Xia, Jun Li, Yuechang Wei, Chunming Xu, Weiyu Song, Jian Liu. Boosting Propane Dehydrogenation by the Regioselective Distribution of Subnanometric CoO Clusters in MFI Zeolite Nanosheets. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (11) , 14250-14260. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c21076
Yaoyuan Zhang, Qin Wu, Kun Zhang, Daxin Shi, Shujun Jia, Kangcheng Chen, Hansheng Li. Synergetic Regulation of the Microstructure and Acidity of HZSM-5/MCM-41 for Efficient Catalytic Cracking of n-Decane. Langmuir 2023, 39 (9) , 3494-3501. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.3c00028
Yilang Liu, Xue Zong, Abhirup Patra, Stavros Caratzoulas, Dionisios G. Vlachos. Propane Dehydrogenation on PtxSny (x, y ≤ 4) Clusters on Al2O3(110). ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (5) , 2802-2812. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05671
Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Ethane Dehydrogenation over the Core–Shell Pt-Based Alloy Catalysts: Driven by Engineering the Shell Composition and Thickness. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (8) , 10679-10695. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c21249
Hongda Zhu, Timothy A. Jackson, Bala Subramaniam. Facile Ozonation of Light Alkanes to Oxygenates with High Atom Economy in Tunable Condensed Phase at Ambient Temperature. JACS Au 2023, 3 (2) , 498-507. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00631
Peng Chen, Ying Liu, Yarong Xu, Chenxi Guo, P. Hu. Quantitative Evidence to Challenge the Traditional Model in Heterogeneous Catalysis: Kinetic Modeling for Ethane Dehydrogenation over Fe/SAPO-34. JACS Au 2023, 3 (1) , 165-175. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00576
Khaled Baamran, Ali A. Rownaghi, Fateme Rezaei. Direct Synthesis of Ethylene and Hydrogen from CO2 and Ethane over a Bifunctional Structured CaO/Cr2O3-V2O5/ZSM-5 Adsorbent/Catalyst Monolith. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2023, 11 (3) , 1006-1018. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c05627
Lulu Ping, Yuan Zhang, Baojun Wang, Maohong Fan, Lixia Ling, Riguang Zhang. Unraveling the Surface State Evolution of IrO2 in Ethane Chemical Looping Oxidative Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (2) , 1381-1399. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05770
Yuchen Liu, Ziyi Liu, Dongqi Wang, An-Hui Lu. Suppressing Deep Oxidation by Detached Nano-sized Boron Oxide in Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane Revealed by the Density Functional Theory Study. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (50) , 21263-21271. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c06910
Toshiki Nishitoba, Kazuhiro Matsumoto, Yusuke Ishizaka, Natsumi Arai, Katsuhiko Takeuchi, Norihisa Fukaya, Tadahiro Fujitani, Akira Endo, Hiroyuki Yasuda, Kazuhiko Sato, Jun-Chul Choi. Controlled Growth of Platinum Nanoparticles on Amorphous Silica from Grafted Pt–Disilicate Complexes. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (50) , 47120-47128. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c06262
Rong Qian, Shi-zhong Luo, Fangli Jing, Wenhao Fang. Carbon Nanotubes Confined PtIn Alloy as a Highly Stable Catalyst for Propane Dehydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (47) , 17264-17274. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02873
Fangliang Li, Binli Wang, Xiao Chen, Yuemiao Lai, Tao Wang, Hongjun Fan, Xueming Yang, Qing Guo. Photocatalytic Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane for Selective Propene Production with TiO2. JACS Au 2022, 2 (11) , 2607-2616. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00512
Qiu-Cui Zheng, Si-Yuan Peng, Si-Qi Cong, Xin-Yu Ning, Yan Guo, Meng-Jiao Li, Wen-Shu Wang, Xiao-Jie Cui, Fei-Xian Luo. Unexpected Cascade Dehydrogenation Triggered by Pd/Cu-Catalyzed C(sp3)–H Arylation/Intramolecular C–N Coupling of Amides: Facile Access to 1,2-Dihydroquinolines. Organic Letters 2022, 24 (45) , 8283-8288. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.2c03203
Xue Cai, Zitong Zhang, Lili Cai, Xiaoyan Tian, Wenling Chu, Weishen Yang. Effect of Calcination Atmosphere on the Structure and Catalytic Behavior of Cr2O3/Al2O3 Catalysts for Dehydrogenation of Propane. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (44) , 16479-16488. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c03031
Guido Zichittella, Amani M. Ebrahim, Jie Zhu, Anna E. Brenner, Griffin Drake, Gregg T. Beckham, Simon R. Bare, Julie E. Rorrer, Yuriy Román-Leshkov. Hydrogenolysis of Polyethylene and Polypropylene into Propane over Cobalt-Based Catalysts. JACS Au 2022, 2 (10) , 2259-2268. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00402
Xiaowen Chen, Mi Peng, Dequan Xiao, Hongyang Liu, Ding Ma. Fully Exposed Metal Clusters: Fabrication and Application in Alkane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12720-12743. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04008
Rui Ma, Junxian Gao, Jiajing Kou, David P. Dean, Christian J. Breckner, Kaijun Liang, Bo Zhou, Jeffrey T. Miller, Guojun Zou. Insights into the Nature of Selective Nickel Sites on Ni/Al2O3 Catalysts for Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (20) , 12607-12616. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03240
Shuairen Qian, Yuxin Chen, Yujie Wang, Binhang Yan, Yi Cheng. Identification of the Intrinsic Active Site in Phase-Pure M1 Catalysts for Oxidation Dehydrogenation of Ethane by Density Functional Theory Calculations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (41) , 17536-17543. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c04675
Jessica Rodriguez, Maxime Boudjelel, Leonard J. Mueller, Richard R. Schrock, Matthew P. Conley. Ring Contraction of a Tungstacyclopentane Supported on Silica: Direct Conversion of Ethylene to Propylene. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (41) , 18761-18765. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c07934
Jessy Abou Nakad, Remy Rajapaksha, Kai C. Szeto, Aimery De Mallmann, Mostafa Taoufik. Preparation of Tripodal Vanadium Oxo-Organometallic Species Supported on Silica, [(≡SiO)3V(═O)], for Selective Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. Organometallics 2022, 41 (19) , 2784-2797. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.2c00377
Kewei Yu, Sanjana Srinivas, Cong Wang, Weiqi Chen, Lu Ma, Steven N. Ehrlich, Nebojsa Marinkovic, Pawan Kumar, Eric A. Stach, Stavros Caratzoulas, Weiqing Zheng, Dionisios G. Vlachos. High-Temperature Pretreatment Effect on Co/SiO2 Active Sites and Ethane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (19) , 11749-11760. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03180
Cristian A. Morales-Rivera, Glenn Cormack, James Burrington, Nicolas Proust, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Understanding and Optimizing the Behavior of Al- and Ru-Based Catalysts for the Synthesis of Polyisobutenyl Succinic Anhydrides. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (39) , 14462-14471. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02003
Jessica A. Muhlenkamp, Jason C. Hicks. Consequences of Propane Dehydrogenation and Oxidative Regeneration on Ni-Phosphide Phase Stability. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (39) , 14472-14481. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02514
Canan Karakaya, Michelle Kidder, Colin Wolden, Robert J. Kee, Olaf Deutschmann. Mechanistic Interpretations and Insights for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane via CO2 over Cr2O3/Al2O3 Catalysts. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (39) , 14482-14493. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02298
Hongyu Chen, Pan Gao, Zhengmao Liu, Lixin Liang, Qiao Han, Zhili Wang, Kuizhi Chen, Zhenchao Zhao, Meiling Guo, Xuebin Liu, Xiuwen Han, Xinhe Bao, Guangjin Hou. Direct Detection of Reactive Gallium-Hydride Species on the Ga2O3 Surface via Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (38) , 17365-17375. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01005
Liang Qi, Yanfei Zhang, Melike Babucci, Cailing Chen, Peng Lu, Jingwei Li, Chaochao Dun, Adam S. Hoffman, Jeffrey J. Urban, Michael Tsapatsis, Simon R. Bare, Yu Han, Bruce C. Gates, Alexis T. Bell. Dehydrogenation of Propane and n-Butane Catalyzed by Isolated PtZn4 Sites Supported on Self-Pillared Zeolite Pentasil Nanosheets. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (18) , 11177-11189. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01631
Xiao Jiang, Bar Mosevitzky Lis, Stephen C. Purdy, Sreya Paladugu, Victor Fung, Wenying Quan, Zhenghong Bao, Weiwei Yang, Yang He, Bobby G. Sumpter, Katharine Page, Israel E. Wachs, Zili Wu. CO2-Assisted Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over VOx/In2O3 Catalysts: Interplay between Redox Property and Acid–Base Interactions. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (18) , 11239-11252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c02099
Yuki Nakaya, Eigo Hayashida, Hiroyuki Asakura, Satoru Takakusagi, Shunsaku Yasumura, Ken-ichi Shimizu, Shinya Furukawa. High-Entropy Intermetallics Serve Ultrastable Single-Atom Pt for Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (35) , 15944-15953. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01200
Guang-Di Wang, Jia-Wei Jiang, Zhi-Jun Sui, Yi-An Zhu, Xing-Gui Zhou. Kinetic Promotion Effect of Hydrogen and Dimethyl Disulfide Addition on Propane Dehydrogenation over the Pt–Sn–K/Al2O3 Catalyst. ACS Omega 2022, 7 (35) , 30773-30781. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c01729
Chen Song, Jiarui Wang, Simin Wang, Jian Wen. Experimental and Theoretical Study of the Impact of Operating Conditions on Catalytic Propane Dehydrogenation in a Fluidized Bed Reactor. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (34) , 12434-12447. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c01729
Yong Yuan, Jason S. Lee, Raul F. Lobo. Ga+-Chabazite Zeolite: A Highly Selective Catalyst for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (33) , 15079-15092. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03941
Jeonghyun Ko, Hanyu Ma, William F. Schneider. Kinetic Origins of High Selectivity of Metal Phosphides for Ethane Dehydrogenation. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2022, 61 (33) , 12083-12091. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c02044
Chengwu Qiu, Yaroslav Odarchenko, Qingwei Meng, Shaojun Xu, Ines Lezcano-Gonzalez, Paul Olalde-Velasco, Francesco Maccherozzi, Laura Zanetti-Domingues, Marisa Martin-Fernandez, Andrew M. Beale. Resolving the Effect of Oxygen Vacancies on Co Nanostructures Using Soft XAS/X-PEEM. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (15) , 9125-9134. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00611
Lukas Rochlitz, Quentin Pessemesse, Jörg W. A. Fischer, Daniel Klose, Adam H. Clark, Milivoj Plodinec, Gunnar Jeschke, Pierre-Adrien Payard, Christophe Copéret. A Robust and Efficient Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyst from Unexpectedly Segregated Pt2Mn Nanoparticles. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (29) , 13384-13393. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c05618
Lingli Ni, Rachit Khare, Ricardo Bermejo-Deval, Ruixue Zhao, Lei Tao, Yue Liu, Johannes A. Lercher. Highly Active and Selective Sites for Propane Dehydrogenation in Zeolite Ga-BEA. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (27) , 12347-12356. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03810
Zhong-Pan Hu, Gangqiang Qin, Jingfeng Han, Wenna Zhang, Nan Wang, Yijun Zheng, Qike Jiang, Te Ji, Zhong-Yong Yuan, Jianping Xiao, Yingxu Wei, Zhongmin Liu. Atomic Insight into the Local Structure and Microenvironment of Isolated Co-Motifs in MFI Zeolite Frameworks for Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (27) , 12127-12137. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c02636
Genwei Chen, Lingzhe Fang, Tao Li, Yizhi Xiang. Ultralow-Loading Pt/Zn Hybrid Cluster in Zeolite HZSM-5 for Efficient Dehydroaromatization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (26) , 11831-11839. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c04278
Jiajia Shi, Yao Wei, Dan Zhou, Leilei Zhang, Xiaofeng Yang, Zhili Miao, Haifeng Qi, Shengxin Zhang, Anqi Li, Xiaoyan Liu, Wensheng Yan, Zheng Jiang, Aiqin Wang, Tao Zhang. Introducing Co–O Moiety to Co–N–C Single-Atom Catalyst for Ethylbenzene Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (13) , 7760-7772. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01873
Jinqiu Guo, Mi Peng, Zhimin Jia, Chengyu Li, Hongyang Liu, Hongbo Zhang, Ding Ma. Kinetic Evidence of Most Abundant Surface Intermediates Variation over Ptn and Ptp: Few-Atom Pt Ensembles Enable Efficient Catalytic Cyclohexane Dehydrogenation for Hydrogen Production-II. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (12) , 7248-7261. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01420
Kai Bian, Guanghui Zhang, Jie Zhu, Xiang Wang, Mingrui Wang, Feijian Lou, Yi Liu, Chunshan Song, Xinwen Guo. Promoting Propane Dehydrogenation with CO2 over the PtFe Bimetallic Catalyst by Eliminating the Non-selective Fe(0) Phase. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (11) , 6559-6569. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00649
Xiao Jiang, Xuanyu Zhang, Stephen C. Purdy, Yang He, Zhennan Huang, Rui You, Zeyue Wei, Harry M. Meyer III, Jiuzhong Yang, Yang Pan, Peiwen Wu, Wenshuai Zhu, Miaofang Chi, Katharine Page, Weixin Huang, Zili Wu. Multiple Promotional Effects of Vanadium Oxide on Boron Nitride for Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane. JACS Au 2022, 2 (5) , 1096-1104. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.1c00542
Jiapei Wang, Min Liu, Junjie Li, Chuanfu Wang, Xinbao Zhang, Yingbin Zheng, Xiujie Li, Longya Xu, Xinwen Guo, Chunshan Song, Xiangxue Zhu. Elucidating the Active-Phase Evolution of Fe-Based Catalysts during Isobutane Dehydrogenation with and without CO2 in Feed Gas. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5930-5938. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05907
Yu-Ling Shan, Huai-Lu Sun, Shi-Lei Zhao, Pei-Long Tang, Wen-Ting Zhao, Jun-Wei Ding, Wen-Long Yu, Li-Na Li, Xiang Feng, De Chen. Effects of Support and CO2 on the Performances of Vanadium Oxide-Based Catalysts in Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5736-5749. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00878
Eleonora Vottero, Michele Carosso, Alberto Ricchebuono, Monica Jiménez-Ruiz, Riccardo Pellegrini, Céline Chizallet, Pascal Raybaud, Elena Groppo, Andrea Piovano. Evidence for H2-Induced Ductility in a Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (10) , 5979-5989. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00606
Yong Peng, Josep Albero, Antonio Franconetti, Patricia Concepción, Hermenegildo García. Visible and NIR Light Assistance of the N2 Reduction to NH3 Catalyzed by Cs-promoted Ru Nanoparticles Supported on Strontium Titanate. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (9) , 4938-4946. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00509
Ming-Hsien Lee, Jiayan Xu, Wenbo Xie. Exploring the Stability of Single-Atom Catalysts Using the Density Functional Theory-Based Global Optimization Method: H2 Formation on VOx/γ-Al2O3(100). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (16) , 6973-6981. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c10740
Mona Abdelgaid, Giannis Mpourmpakis. Structure–Activity Relationships in Lewis Acid–Base Heterogeneous Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4268-4289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00229
Dan Zhao, Ke Guo, Shanlei Han, Dmitry E. Doronkin, Henrik Lund, Jianshu Li, Jan-Dierk Grunwaldt, Zhen Zhao, Chunming Xu, Guiyuan Jiang, Evgenii V. Kondratenko. Controlling Reaction-Induced Loss of Active Sites in ZnOx/Silicalite-1 for Durable Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (8) , 4608-4617. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05778
Meledath Sudhakaran Keerthana, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Palladium-Catalyzed Aerobic α,β-Dehydrogenation of Aliphatic Amides. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2022, 87 (7) , 4873-4882. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c00226
Alberto Rodriguez-Gomez, Samy Ould-Chikh, Javier Castells-Gil, Antonio Aguilar-Tapia, Pierre Bordet, Mogbel A. Alrushaid, Carlos Marti-Gastaldo, Jorge Gascon. Fe-MOF Materials as Precursors for the Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Isobutane. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (7) , 3832-3844. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05303
Yanfei Zhang, Liang Qi, Branden Leonhardt, Alexis T. Bell. Mechanism and Kinetics of n-Butane Dehydrogenation to 1,3-Butadiene Catalyzed by Isolated Pt Sites Grafted onto ≡SiOZn–OH Nests in Dealuminated Zeolite Beta. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (6) , 3333-3345. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00059
Alan J. Barrios, Deizi V. Peron, Anoop Chakkingal, Achim Iulian Dugulan, Simona Moldovan, Kalthoum Nakouri, Joëlle Thuriot-Roukos, Robert Wojcieszak, Joris W. Thybaut, Mirella Virginie, Andrei Y. Khodakov. Efficient Promoters and Reaction Paths in the CO2 Hydrogenation to Light Olefins over Zirconia-Supported Iron Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (5) , 3211-3225. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05648
Mi Peng, Zhimin Jia, Zirui Gao, Ming Xu, Danyang Cheng, Meng Wang, Chengyu Li, Linlin Wang, Xiangbin Cai, Zheng Jiang, Hong Jiang, Ning Wang, Dequan Xiao, Hongyang Liu, Ding Ma. Antisintering Pd1 Catalyst for Propane Direct Dehydrogenation with In Situ Active Sites Regeneration Ability. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (4) , 2244-2252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05590
Charles Fricke, Biplab Rajbanshi, Eric A. Walker, Gabriel Terejanu, Andreas Heyden. Propane Dehydrogenation on Platinum Catalysts: Identifying the Active Sites through Bayesian Analysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (4) , 2487-2498. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04844
Scott A. Steinmetz, Andrew T. DeLaRiva, Christopher Riley, Paul Schrader, Abhaya Datye, Erik D. Spoerke, Christopher J. Kliewer. Gas-Phase Hydrogen-Atom Measurement above Catalytic and Noncatalytic Materials during Ethane Dehydrogenation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2022, 126 (6) , 3054-3059. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c09955
Yong Yuan, Raul F. Lobo, Bingjun Xu. Ga2O22+ Stabilized by Paired Framework Al Atoms in MFI: A Highly Reactive Site in Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (3) , 1775-1783. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05724
Bofeng Zhang, Guozhu Li, Sibao Liu, Yucai Qin, Lijuan Song, Li Wang, Xiangwen Zhang, Guozhu Liu. Boosting Propane Dehydrogenation over PtZn Encapsulated in an Epitaxial High-Crystallized Zeolite with a Low Surface Barrier. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (2) , 1310-1314. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04092
Che-Wei Chang, Hien N. Pham, Ryan Alcala, Abhaya K. Datye, Jeffrey T. Miller. Dehydroaromatization Pathway of Propane on PtZn/SiO2 + ZSM-5 Bifunctional Catalyst. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2022, 10 (1) , 394-409. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c06579
Kyle Groden, Fernando D. Vila, Li Li, Simon R. Bare, Susannah L. Scott, Jean-Sabin McEwen. First-Principles Approach to Extracting Chemical Information from X-ray Absorption Near-Edge Spectra of Ga-Containing Materials. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2021, 125 (51) , 27901-27908. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c07728
Diana Berman, Ali Erdemir. Achieving Ultralow Friction and Wear by Tribocatalysis: Enabled by In-Operando Formation of Nanocarbon Films. ACS Nano 2021, 15 (12) , 18865-18879. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c08170
Yehong Wang, Zhixin Zhang, Lijun Lei, Wen Liu, Shuyan Du, Xiangxue Zhu, Xiujie Li, Feng Wang. Defect-Dependent Selective C–H/C–C Bond Cleavage of Propane in the Presence of CO2 over FeNi/Ceria Catalysts. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2021, 9 (51) , 17301-17309. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c06095
Wenkai Chen, Kuiyi You, Yanan Wei, Fangfang Zhao, Zhenpan Chen, Jian Wu, Qiuhong Ai, He’an Luo. Highly Dispersed Low-Polymeric VOx/Silica Gel Catalyst for Efficient Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Propane to Propylene. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (50) , 18327-18336. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c03935
Liang Qi, Melike Babucci, Yanfei Zhang, Alicia Lund, Lingmei Liu, Jingwei Li, Yizhen Chen, Adam S. Hoffman, Simon R. Bare, Yu Han, Bruce C. Gates, Alexis T. Bell. Propane Dehydrogenation Catalyzed by Isolated Pt Atoms in ≡SiOZn–OH Nests in Dealuminated Zeolite Beta. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (50) , 21364-21378. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c10261
Yang He, Hanzhong Shi, Olusola Johnson, Babu Joseph, John N. Kuhn. Selective and Stable In-Promoted Fe Catalyst for Syngas Conversion to Light Olefins. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (24) , 15177-15186. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04334
Weiyu Song, Kuichao Yu, Xiangyang Ji, Bowen Liu, Zhi Li, Yanjun Chen, Jian Liu. Computational Screening and Experimental Synthesis of Doped TiO2 for Propane Dehydrogenation. Energy & Fuels 2021, 35 (23) , 19624-19633. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.1c03200
Teng-Fei Xiao, Yi-Fan Zhang, Wen-Tao Hou, Pen-Ji Yan, Jun Hai, Peng-Fei Xu, Guo-Qiang Xu. Dehydrogenation/(3+2) Cycloaddition of Saturated Aza-Heterocycles via Merging Organic Photoredox and Lewis Acid Catalysis. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (22) , 8942-8946. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c03431
Douglas A. Blom, Thomas Vogt. Detecting Framework Distortions Predicted by Hybrid-DFT: An Opportunity to Improve the M1 Catalyst. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2021, 12 (45) , 11158-11163. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c02941
Aihua Zhang, Hui Wang, Joshua Miles, Junjun Shan, Amin Sardar, Louis Guillen. Two-Step Process for Feasible Conversion of Ethane to Aromatics: Concept and Demonstration. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research 2021, 60 (45) , 16233-16244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.1c03772
Ming-Yu Qi, Marco Conte, Masakazu Anpo, Zi-Rong Tang, Yi-Jun Xu. Cooperative Coupling of Oxidative Organic Synthesis and Hydrogen Production over Semiconductor-Based Photocatalysts. Chemical Reviews 2021, 121 (21) , 13051-13085. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00197
Lohit Sharma, Xiao Jiang, Zili Wu, Andrew DeLaRiva, Abhaya K. Datye, John Baltrus, Srinivas Rangarajan, Jonas Baltrusaitis. Atomically Dispersed Tin-Modified γ-alumina for Selective Propane Dehydrogenation under H2S Co-feed. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13472-13482. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c02859
Yuebing Xu, Wenda Yu, Hao Zhang, Jian Xin, Xiaohui He, Bing Liu, Feng Jiang, Xiaohao Liu. Suppressing C–C Bond Dissociation for Efficient Ethane Dehydrogenation over the Isolated Co(II) Sites in SAPO-34. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13001-13019. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03382
Jiajing Kou, Johnny Zhu Chen, Junxian Gao, Xiaoben Zhang, Jie Zhu, Arnab Ghosh, Wei Liu, A. Jeremy Kropf, Dmitry Zemlyanov, Rui Ma, Xinwen Guo, Abhaya K. Datye, Guanghui Zhang, Liejin Guo, Jeffrey T. Miller. Structural and Catalytic Properties of Isolated Pt2+ Sites in Platinum Phosphide (PtP2). ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13496-13509. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03970
Alexis Sangnier, Eric Genty, Mathilde Iachella, Philippe Sautet, Pascal Raybaud, Mickaël Matrat, Christophe Dujardin, Céline Chizallet. Thermokinetic and Spectroscopic Mapping of Carbon Monoxide Adsorption on Highly Dispersed Pt/γ-Al2O3. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (21) , 13280-13293. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04262
Load more citations
Download PDF
close the sidebar.
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Consumption of ethylene, propylene, and butylenes in 2004, 2010, and 2016 (predicted). In addition, the products made by these olefins are shown in the graph to the right. These (predicted) numbers originate from ref. 7.
Figure 2
Figure 2. World map showing an overview of propane dehydrogenation installations currently in operation (filled shapes) and installations that have been announced and are expected to start up before 2018 (unfilled shapes). The numbers represent the maximum production of each plant (×1000 tons per year). The locations of the facilities are approximations. (16, 17, 44, 45) For some of the newly announced PDH installations (□), the industrial process to be used remains to be announced.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Schematic representation of a Catofin dehydrogenation unit. Eight parallel reactors alternate between dehydrogenation (DH), purge, and regeneration (regen). Olefins produced are separated from side products that are subsequently mixed with oxygen and combusted to heat the reactors during the regeneration step.
Figure 4
Figure 4. Schematic representation of an Oleflex dehydrogenation unit. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate paraffins, cracking products, and hydrogen from olefins is shown.
Figure 5
Figure 5. Schematic representation of a Steam Active Reforming (STAR) dehydrogenation unit. The system comprises two fixed bed reactors, one located in an oven and an oxyreactor where hydrogen is combusted. A simplified version of the gas separation unit used to separate the olefins from paraffins, cracking products, and residual hydrogen is shown.
Figure 6
Figure 6. Schematic representation of the Fluidized Bed Dehydrogenation (FBD) reactor system. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Schematic representation of the Linde-BASF PDH process. A simplified version of the gas separation section is shown.
Figure 8
Figure 8. Equilibrium conversion of C2–C4 paraffins to olefins as a function of temperature at 1 bar (left) and pressure dependence of the dehydrogenation of propane as a function of temperature (right).
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Examples of the Side Reactions That May Occur When 1-Butene Is Exposed to a Pt/Al2O3 Catalyst: (1) Hydrogenolysis, (2) Thermal Cracking, (3) Catalytic Cracking, and (4) Isomerization
Figure 9
Figure 9. Structure sensitivity of ethane hydrogenolysis on 1% Pt/SBA-15 with Pt particle size ranging from 1.7 to 7.1 nm. Reprinted with permission from ref. 69, copyright 2005, American Chemical Society.
Figure 10
Figure 10. Selectivity to butenes as a function of the number of butane pulses on a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst doped with different amounts of Na (left) and TPO profiles of the spent catalysts (right) showing that Na has a positive effect on the selectivity and that the presence of Na decreases the coke deposition, respectively. Reprinted from ref. 84, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 11
Figure 11. In the figures to the left, HERFD-XANES intensity contour maps (Pt-L3 edge) of Pt/Al2O3 (top) and Pt–Sn/Al2O3 (bottom) catalysts are shown at different stages of a dehydrogenation experiment. The figures to the right depict the interpretation of Iglesia-Juez et al. for these spectra in terms of changes to the Pt nanoparticles. Reprinted from ref 122, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 12
Figure 12. An artist’s impression of a Pt–Sn nanoparticle within a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst is shown as was discussed in the preceding section. The surface of the alumina is covered with SnO2, which gets reduced when in close proximity to Pt and incorporated into a bimetallic Pt–Sn nanoparticle. Surface Pt atoms catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction according to the mechanism shown in the inset.
Figure 13
Figure 13. Graphs represent Raman spectra of x wt % CrOx/SBA-15 and CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts (x: a = 0.5, b = 1, c = 5, d = 10). Bands attributed to CrO42– and Cr–O–Cr species are observed at different loadings and correspond with isolated Cr atoms and crystalline Cr2O3. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 14
Figure 14. In situ XANES spectra of the Cr K-edge of the 5 wt % catalysts after oxidative pretreatment (−), after 90 s of dehydrogenation (black - - -), after 15 min of PDH (gray – – −), and after regeneration (gray −). Notably, the Cr6+ species present on the catalyst are reduced to Cr3+ species in the first 90 s of the reaction. Reprinted from ref 149, copyright 2009, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 15
Figure 15. Graph to the left shows in situ diffuse reflectance spectra obtained during the dehydrogenation of propane on a CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst. In the right set of graphs, the relative change of bands (B–D) corresponding to Cr3+ and Cr6+ is shown. Both graphs illustrate that Cr3+ (band at 700 nm) is formed at the expense of Cr6+ (bands at 260 and 370 nm) during PDH. Reprinted from ref 150, copyright 2011, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 16
Figure 16. Yield of butenes at 540 °C over a chromia–alumina catalyst as a function of Cr loading. Activity increases linearly with Cr loading, even above monolayer coverage. However, the yield drops once Cr2O3 crystallites start being detected via XRD. Reprinted from ref 163, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 17
Figure 17. To the left, the conversion and selectivity observed in a 86 min period of propane dehydrogenation on a 13 wt % CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. Conversion drops over time, while the selectivity remains stable after increasing during the initial stages of the reaction. To the right, the mass uptake of the catalyst as measured by a tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) is shown as a function of time-on-stream. Over the first 40 min, the catalyst mass increases due to coke deposition, after which it remains stable. Reproduced from ref 180, with permission from the PCCP Owner Societies.
Figure 18
Figure 18. Top graph shows the ex situ diffuse reflectance UV–vis spectra of both fresh and deactivated CrOx/Al2O3. The bottom left graph shows the extent of the shift for the bands at 600 and 450 nm, which correspond to the first and second d–d transitions, respectively. The bottom right graph shows that the fraction of Cr3+ incorporated into the alumina framework is strongly dependent on the calcination temperature. Reprinted from ref 49 (top graph), copyright 2004, and ref 172 (bottom two graphs), copyright 2002, both with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 19
Figure 19. TPR profiles of 6 wt % CrOx on different supports. The catalysts with a strong reduction peak at low temperatures show the highest catalytic activity. The figure is reproduced from ref. 179 with kind permission from Springer Science and Business Media.
Figure 20
Figure 20. An artist’s impression of the surface of a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst in which coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction. Note that partially reduced CrOx species are formed on the surface of the catalyst, and that the Cr is partially dissolved in the alumina support. The (simplified) reaction mechanism is shown in the inset.
Figure 21
Figure 21. Various vanadium oxide species present on a catalyst support (S): isolated vanadium oxide species (a), dimers (b), two-dimensional chains of vanadium oxide species (c), and V2O5 crystallites (d). Reprinted from ref 201, copyright 2003, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 22
Figure 22. Vanadium 2p3/2 XPS spectra of a VOx/Al2O3 catalyst calcined (top) and reduced with CO (bottom). Reduction yields a mixture of V5+, V4+, and V3+. Reprinted from ref 207, copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 23
Figure 23. Yield of different carbon molecules during butane dehydrogenation on a MoOxCy catalyst at different steam partial pressures. When no steam is added, the selectivity to C4 alkenes drops rapidly and the methane yield reaches 100% after 5 h. The hydrogenolysis reaction is suppressed when steam is added to the feed. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 24
Figure 24. XRD diffractograms of the fresh Mo oxycarbide catalyst before dehydrogenation, but after pretreatment (top left), as well as after dehydrogenation reaction with no steam (top right), with 5 Torr of steam (bottom left), and with 18 Torr of steam (bottom right). In the absence of steam, the well-defined MoO2 and MoOxCy species disappear during reaction and are replaced by more amorphous MoOxCy species, which are enriched with carbon and presumably responsible for hydrogenolysis. The addition of steam prevents this transformation and with 18 Torr of steam, MoO2 and ordered MoOxCy species are still observed on the spent catalysts. Reprinted from ref 221, copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 25
Figure 25. Concentration of Lewis acid sites versus propane conversion measured 15 min after the start of the PDH reaction on GaxAl10–xO15. A clear correlation between the conversion and the surface density of weak Lewis acid sites is observed. For these experiments, CO2 is used to improve conversion. Reprinted from ref 232, copyright 2008, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 26
Figure 26. TEM images of VOx/Al2O3 after butane dehydrogenation at 550 °C (left) and 700 °C (center and right). The high magnification image of the catalyst deactivated at 700 °C clearly shows that the catalyst is completely enveloped in a carbon layer a few nanometers thick. Nevertheless, this catalyst still displays a relatively high activity at 700 °C. Reprinted from ref 215, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Figure 27
Figure 27. Propane conversion on a series of 20% In–80% metal mixed oxides showing InAlOx to be the most active formulation (left). Albeit other In:Al ratios were tested, 20% In–80% Al afforded the highest propylene yield. The TPR profiles of different In–Al mixed oxides after H2 reduction at 500 °C and subsequent treatment with CO2 at 600 °C are also shown (right). The peak at around 700 °C (labeled β) represents the reduction of In2O3 to In0; the total hydrogen consumption showing the In2O3 is nearly completely reduced to In0. The peak at 300 °C (labeled α) corresponds to the reduction of small In2O3 domains in the mixed oxide and suggests the formation of small metallic In particles. The absence of this peak in the top trace suggests that CO2 cannot reoxidize these particles at 600 °C. The graph to the left is reprinted from ref 260, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier. The graph to the right is reprinted from ref 262, copyright 2010, with permission from Elsevier.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Dehydrogenation Mechanism As Proposed by Horiuti and Polanyi on a Pt Surfacea
Scheme aThe intermediates depicted have been observed by IR spectroscopy during the hydrogenation reaction at low temperatures and are supported by theoretical calculations. The dissociative adsorption of propane may also take place by the abstraction of the β-hydrogen, forming a 2-propyl intermediate, but for brevity this pathway is not shown. High paraffin pressures favor the formation of propylidyne species (step h-j), which are coke precursors. These species are relatively stable and can only be hydrogenated when high concentrations of hydrogen are present on the Pt surface. (292-297)
Figure 28
Figure 28. Energy profiles for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on Pt (111) (black), Pt3Sn (111) (blue), and Pt2Sn (111) (red) surfaces, as obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates are shown along with their corresponding energies. The recombination of the hydrogen adatoms is not considered. (114) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms for the Dehydrogenation of Ethane on CrOx Catalysts (144, 306, 307)
Figure 29
Figure 29. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on CrOx catalyst obtained by DFT calculations. The intermediates from Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that for the second section of the scheme, a second propane molecule is dehydrogenated. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Figure 30
Figure 30. Energy profile for propane dehydrogenation to propylene on GaOx catalyst, as determined by DFT calculations on a Ga (100) surface. Intermediates analogous to those displayed in Scheme 3 are shown along with their relative energies. Note that two pathways for the dehydrogenation of propane are considered, one involving a radical intermediate and another an ethyl intermediate, the former having a lower energy barrier. (314, 315) The values of potential energy for all intermediates are given relative to the potential energy of a propane molecule in the gas phase and a clean catalyst surface.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Proposed Pathway Linking the Formation of Strongly Adsorbed Propyl Species to That of an Aromatic Ring through a Series of Cracking (a–e), Deep Dehydrogenation (f–i), and/or Dimerization (f,g,j,k) Reactions (293, 294, 321)a
Scheme aNote that the adsorbed hydrocarbons shown in the scheme are examples of species formed on the Pt surface, and that they actually represent a family of similar species.
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Proposed Mechanisms for the Growth of Polyaromatic Species by Either Diels–Alder-type Addition, Propylene Addition via Radical Chemistry, or Fusion of Small Domains into Larger Ones (322, 323)a
Scheme aThe species will continue to grow in a similar fashion, and at a certain point are considered to be graphene-like sheets. The molecules in the scheme are only simplified hydrogen-deficient coke precursors that may be present on the surface of the catalyst. Such species are directly bonded to the Pt surface and in reality will contain significant amounts of hydrogen, either in hydrogen-terminated aromatic rings or in aliphatic side chains.
Figure 31
Figure 31. Propylene yield during propane dehydrogenation (left) and isobutene yield during isobutane dehydrogenation (right) versus the deactivation rate of catalysts included in Tables 3–9. Each data point is labeled with the number included in the first column of the relevant table, to distinguish between different catalysts. Catalyst systems displaying high yields combined with low deactivation rates are preferred.
Figure 32
Figure 32. Yield of propylene and isobutene versus WHSV (left and right, respectively) of the catalysts included in Tables 3–9. High yields obtained at high space velocities are preferred. Therefore, because Pt-based catalysts can afford comparable yields to catalysts based on metal oxides while operating at higher space velocities, they are deemed superior in this respect.
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Proposed Active Sites for the Pt-, CrOx-, and GaOx-Based Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts, the Order of Magnitude of Their Calculated Specific Activity, and the Reaction Rates (k/A) Calculated by DFT
Figure 33
Figure 33. To the left, a schematic representation of the pilot-scale reactor used for propane dehydrogenation is shown. Two UV–vis probes are inserted in the reactor to visualize the deactivation of the CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst as a function of time and catalyst bed height (the spectra acquired are shown in the center of the figure). This technique is excellent to visualize the coke-induced darkening of the catalyst extrudates from green to black, as is shown in the photographs to the right. Reproduced from ref 198, copyright 2013, by permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler
Jesper J. H. B. Sattler was born in Veenendaal, The Netherlands, in 1986. He obtained his master’s degree in chemistry at Utrecht University. His thesis was on the subject of the intergrowth of zeolite materials studied by in situ microspectroscopy under the supervision of Dr. Marianne H. F. Kox and Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen. He continued working under the guidance of Prof. Bert M. Weckhuysen for his Ph.D. research, which focusses on the deactivation of propane dehydrogenation catalysts.
Javier Ruiz-Martinez
Javier Ruiz-Martinez was born in Granada, Spain, in 1979. He completed his master’s degree in Chemical Engineering at the University of Granada and the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in 2003. After graduation, he started his Ph.D. under the supervision of Prof. Antonio Sepulveda-Escribano and Prof. Francisco Rodriguez-Reinoso at the University of Alicante, on the synthesis and characterization of Pt–Sn catalysts for selective hydrogenation and steam reforming reactions. During his Ph.D., he worked as a visiting researcher with Prof. James Anderson at the University of Aberdeen and with Prof. Burtron Davis and Dr. Gary Jacobs at the University of Kentucky Center for Applied Energy Research. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2009, he moved to Utrecht University as a postdoctoral research fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen, where he obtained a personal NWO Veni grant in 2012. Since October 2013, he is an assistant professor within the same group.
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez
Eduardo Santillan-Jimenez was born in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, in 1980. While studying chemistry at the Autonomous University of San Luis Potosi, he interned in the laboratory of Prof. David Atwood at the University of Kentucky (Lexington, KY), working on the removal of mercury from water. After graduation, he joined the University of Kentucky (UK) chemistry graduate program, performing his doctoral research on the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides at the UK Center for Applied Energy Research (CAER) and at the University of Alicante (Spain), under the guidance of Prof. Mark Crocker and Prof. Agustin Bueno-Lopez. After obtaining his Ph.D. in 2008, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow in the group of Prof. Bert Weckhuysen at Utrecht University (The Netherlands), where part of his work centered on the study of propane dehydrogenation catalysts via operando spectroscopy. In 2010, he returned to the UK-CAER, where he now holds the position of Principal Research Scientist.
Bert M. Weckhuysen
Bert M. Weckhuysen was born in Aarschot, Belgium, in 1968. After receiving his Ph.D. in 1995 with Prof. Robert Schoonheydt from Leuven University, he worked as a postdoctoral fellow with Prof. Israel Wachs at Lehigh University and Prof. Jack Lunsford at Texas A&M University. Since 2000, he is full professor of inorganic chemistry and catalysis at Utrecht University. He has authored over 340 publications in peer-reviewed scientific journals. Weckhuysen has received several research awards for his work on in situ catalyst characterization, the most recent being the 2011 Paul H. Emmett Award in Fundamental Catalysis from the North American Catalysis Society, the 2012 International Catalysis Award from the International Association of Catalysis Societies, the 2013 Royal Society of Chemistry Bourke Award, and the 2013 Spinoza Award from The Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research.

</DOCUMENT>

Based on the details given in the supplied document above, first judge if the document is related to propane dehydrogenation. If the document is related to propane dehydrogenation, proceed to:

1. Enumerate all the catalysts mentioned within the document.
2. For each catalyst, extract the following details:
    - Name
    - Type: Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others
    - Active Species Element(s) (chemical symbols)
    - Promoter Element(s) (chemical symbols, if any)
    - Support Material: Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Carbides, Zeolites, Others
    - Conversion Rate (value and units)
    - Selectivity (value and units)
    - Stability
    - Deactivation Rate(s) (value and units)
    - Propane Production Rate (value and units)
    - Propylene Yield (value and units)
    - Feed Composition and Ratio(s)
    - Propane Partial Pressure
    - Reaction Temperature (value and units)
    - Inlet Flow Rate (value and units)
    - Catalyst Loading or Gas Hourly Space Velocity (GHSV) (value and units)
3. Identify which specific catalyst stands out as the pivotal scientific contribution within the manuscript.
4. Output the data in XML format as provided in the sample template.

<output>
	<Relevance>
		(Indicate yes or no)
	</Relevance>
	<IfRelevant>
		<CatalystsList>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name>
				<Type>____</Type>  <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Carbides, Zeolites, Others -->
				<ConversionRate>__Value (Units)__</ConversionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value (Units)__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Stability>____</Stability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value (Units)__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
			</Catalyst>
			<!-- Add more Catalyst items as necessary -->
		</CatalystsList>
		<MainContribution>
			<Catalyst>
				<Name>____</Name>
				<Type>____</Type>  <!-- Metal, Metal Oxide, Single Atom, Alloy, Others -->
				<ActiveSpeciesElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</ActiveSpeciesElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PromoterElements>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<Element>__Chemical Symbol__</Element>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</PromoterElements> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<SupportMaterial>____</SupportMaterial> <!-- Silica Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Carbides, Zeolites, Others -->
				<ConversionRate>__Value (Units)__</ConversionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Selectivity>__Value (Units)__</Selectivity> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<Stability>____</Stability> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<DeactivationRates>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<Rate>__Value (Units)__</Rate>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</DeactivationRates> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropaneProductionRate>__Value (Units)__</PropaneProductionRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropyleneYield>__Value (Units)__</PropyleneYield> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<FeedCompositionAndRatios>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<Ratio>____</Ratio>
					<!-- Add more items as necessary -->
				</FeedCompositionAndRatios> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<PropanePartialPressure>____</PropanePartialPressure> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<ReactionTemperature>__Value (Units)__</ReactionTemperature> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<InletFlowRate>__Value (Units)__</InletFlowRate> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
				<CatalystLoadingOrGHSV>__Value (Units)__</CatalystLoadingOrGHSV> <!-- N/A if not mentioned -->
			</Catalyst>
		</MainContribution>
	</IfRelevant>
</output>
