I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Surface Engineering of Titania Boosts Electroassisted Propane Dehydrogenation at Low Temperature
Graphical Abstract
PtIn nanoalloy supported on Sm-doped TiO2 is a highly efficient catalyst for electroassisted propane dehydrogenation. Surface doping of Sm3+ enriched the surface proton density on TiO2 by charge compensation, which boosted propane dehydrogenation by accelerating proton collision on propane due to enhanced surface protonics. A propylene yield of 19.3% was achieved at 300C, which is far beyond the thermodynamic equilibrium limitation.
Abstract
Electric field catalysis using surface proton conduction, in which proton hopping and collision on the reactant are promoted by external electricity, is a promising approach to break the thermodynamic equilibrium limitation in endothermic propane dehydrogenation (PDH). This study proposes a catalyst design concept for more efficient electroassisted PDH at low temperature. Sm was doped into the anatase TiO2 surface to increase surface proton density by charge compensation. PtIn alloy was deposited on the Sm-doped TiO2 for more favorable proton collision and selective propylene formation. The catalytic activity in electroassisted PDH drastically increased by doping an appropriate amount of Sm (1mol% to Ti) where the highest propylene yield of 19.3% was obtained at 300C where the thermodynamic equilibrium yield was only 0.5%. Results show that surface proton enrichment boosts alkane dehydrogenation at low temperature.
Introduction
Propylene is one of the most important feedstocks to produce chemicals and plastic products in the global chemical industry, and the propylene gap between the world demand and supply is gradually increasing.1-3 Therefore, on-purpose propylene production technologies such as propane dehydrogenation (PDH) are of great interest to the petrochemical marketplace.1 Owing to the highly endothermic properties of PDH reactions, a temperature range of 550C to 600C is required to gain sufficient equilibrium yield. However, the required high-temperature system for sufficient propane conversion is expensive and energy consuming. Moreover, under such high temperatures, side reactions and deactivation by coking and metal sintering occur, severely hindering practical utilization.1-3 Therefore, developing a catalytic system for PDH that works at a lower temperature region is highly attractive.
One of the promising approaches for such low-temperature conversion is electroassisted catalysis based on surface protonics. Imposing a direct current on a catalyst allows high conversion at low temperatures by gaining the external free energy of electricity.4 In this system, surface protons migrate on the oxide support by the Grotthuss mechanism and attack the reactant molecule at the metalsupport interface, which allows the conversion of robust molecules such as methane (CH4),5-7 nitrogen (N2),8-10 and carbon dioxide (CO2)11 at low temperatures. Applying electric field catalysis can also be a promising way to break the thermodynamic equilibrium limitation of propane conversion at low temperatures. In this reaction system, the overall reaction rate of propylene formation is mainly determined by three factors: (1) the number (concentration) of surface protons, (2) the transition-state stability at proton collision, and (3) the selectivity to propylene desorption or decomposition. First, the number of surface protons, which is the density of surface hydroxyl groups, is the key factor that directly determines overall reaction rate. Surface hydroxyl groups can be enriched by doping a heterocation on the support oxide surface region by charge compensation (Scheme1).12-14 For other factors, electron-enriched active sites are able to stabilize the cationic transition state formed by proton collision while diluting the active metal ensemble by alloying with an inert metal to increase selectivity to propylene.15-17 Indeed, we recently demonstrated that alloying Pt with In to form intermetallic Pt3In effectively satisfies requirements (2) and (3) (Scheme1).15, 18 As a result, the combination of the two modifications is expected to boost the potential ability for electroassisted PDH at low temperatures.
Scheme 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
The catalyst design for enhancing electroassisted PDH at low temperatures. Sm3+ is doped on the TiO2 surface to increase the number of surface protons by charge compensation. PtIn alloy is used for selective formation of propylene and to enhance the proton collision with propane.
In this study, we discovered that doping Sm3+ into the surface of anatase TiO2, which is a common oxide support suitable for surface protonics,5, 19 successfully increased the concentration of surface hydroxyl groups of TiO2 by charge compensation. Moreover, the promotional effect of this surface engineering of TiO2 and the active site modification based on PtIn alloying could be synergized to combine factors (1)(3) (Scheme1), thereby enabling a drastic enhancement in the catalytic activity in electroassisted propane dehydrogenation at 300C. The hybrid catalyst, PtIn/SmTiO2, afforded the highest propylene yield of 19.3% at a 300C furnace temperature, where the thermodynamic equilibrium yield is only 0.5%. Herein, we report not only a highly efficient propylene production system working at low temperatures, but also an advanced and universal strategy for improving the catalytic performance of electric field catalysis.
Results and Discussion
First, the dopant cation was selected according to the following criteria: (1) trivalent, to capture a proton by charge compensation (hydroxyl group is formed by attaching H+ on the adjacent lattice oxygen), (2) non-reducible and no other oxidation states, and (3) a much larger ionic radius than Ti4+, such that bulk region substitution is unfavorable. In this study, Sm3+ with an ionic radius (1.086Å) much larger than that of Ti4+ (0.68Å),21 was chosen as a dopant for anatase TiO2 support.13 Second, Sm should be doped only at the TiO2 surface region to obtain a higher content of surface hydroxyl groups while retaining the bulk conductivity of TiO2 support. Therefore, we prepared Sm-doped TiO2 (SmTiO2) using a hydrothermal method with anatase TiO2 as a core and SmTi sol for the shell (Figure1a). For the control sample, we also prepared Sm-loaded TiO2 (Sm/TiO2) by hydrothermal synthesis of a TiO2 shell on anatase TiO2 followed by impregnation of Sm3+ (FigureS1). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis showed that the crystal structure of bulk anatase TiO2 and the crystallite size changed little upon Sm doping (1011nm, FigureS2), the latter of which was also consistent with the mean particle size (12.1nm, FigureS3). This indicates that the Sm-containing TiO2 shell was constructed as a very thin layer on the surface of bare TiO2. The high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image of SmTiO2 showed bright dots in the TiO2 crystal (Figure1b), indicating that the doped Sm was highly dispersed in an isolated state. Elemental analysis confirmed that the Sm/Ti ratio (including bare TiO2) was 0.009 (FigureS4) which is consistent with the fed ratio in material synthesis (1mol%). We also performed a cross-sectional analysis of SmTiO2 using fast-ion bombardment (FIB) etching.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)Illustration of catalyst preparation: hydrothermal (HT) synthesis of SmTiO2 and the subsequent impregnation and alloying of PtIn/SmTiO2. b)HAADF-STEM image and the (c)(e) the corresponding cross-sectional analysis of SmTiO2 (Sm: 1mol%) using FIB etching: c)HAADF-STEM image, d)elemental map acquired by EDX, and e)high-resolution HAADF-STEM image focusing on the surface. f)Fourier transforms of Sm K-edge EXAFS of Sm-containing samples. Plausible surface structures of g)Sm-doped and h)-loaded TiO2 with ionic radii. i)HAADF-STEM image of PtIn/SmTiO2 (Sm: 1mol%). Inset shows the particle size distribution.
Cross-sectional HAADF-STEM revealed that high crystallinity was retained to the outermost surface layers (Figure1c), suggesting that the Sm-containing TiO2 layer was epitaxially grown on the bare TiO2. The corresponding elemental map showed that Sm was located mainly on the shell part and grain boundary of the nanocrystals (Figure1d). Although there were some Sm spots overlapping on the bulk part of TiO2, this may be due to Sm species presenting on the backside surface of TiO2 nanocrystals. High-resolution HAADF-STEM showed that Sm actually replaced the surface Ti site (Figure1e), demonstrating that surface doping was successfully performed. X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis was then performed to obtain further structural information. The Sm K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of SmTiO2 and Sm/TiO2 showed absorption edge features similar to that of Sm2O3, confirming that the Sm species in these samples are in the trivalent state (FigureS5). Fourier transforms of the extended XAFS (EXAFS) spectra of SmTiO2 and Sm/TiO2 showed single coordination peaks assignable to SmO without any scattering of the second coordination sphere (Figure1f), which indicates the high dispersion of Sm cations consistent with the results of HAADF-STEM and XRD. Notably, the SmO bond length of SmTiO2 was shorter than those of bulk Sm2O3 and Sm/TiO2 (see TableS1 and FigureS6 for curve fitting details). This is probably because Sm3+ was confined to the surface cation vacancy of TiO2 (Figure1g), which is narrower than the environment of surface-loaded Sm (Figure1h) and bulk Sm2O3.
Then, Pt and In were co-impregnated and alloyed on the Sm-doped and -loaded TiO2 (Figure1a and FigureS1). Figure1i shows the HAADF-STEM image of PtIn/SmTiO2, wherein the size of PtIn alloy particles ranges mainly from 2 to 4nm (average: 2.7nm). Elemental analysis revealed the Pt:In atomic ratio in the nanoparticle region was 3.00 : 0.97 on average (FigureS7). The XAFS analyses revealed that Pt and In were in metallic states (FigureS8) and indicated the presence of PtPt and PtIn scattering with a coordination number ratio close to 2 (5.7/3.1=1.84 for PtIn/SmTiO2, TableS2 and FiguresS9), which is that of the intermetallic Pt3In phase. These results strongly suggest the formation of intermetallic Pt3In as small nanoparticles on the Sm-doped TiO2 surface. Notably, similar XAFS results were obtained for PtIn/Sm/TiO2 and PtIn/TiO2 (XANES feature and coordination number ratio: 2.0, TableS2 and FigureS9), indicating that the degree of alloying and electronic state of Pt did not differ depending on the state or presence/absence of Sm. XPS analysis also showed that the electron density of Pt was not changed upon Sm-doping (FigureS10). The Pt dispersion of PtIn/SmTiO2 estimated by CO chemisorption was 45.2%, which was consistent with the particle size (STEM: 2.7nm) when a half cuboctahedron was considered (model: 2.8nm, FigureS11). PtIn/TiO2 showed a similar but slightly higher Pt dispersion (56.5%), indicating that the particle size is slightly smaller than that of the Sm-doped catalyst.
Next, we conducted infrared-mass temperature-programmed desorption (IR-MS-TPD) analysis to correctly quantify the number of surface hydroxyl groups upon Sm doping to TiO2. Figure2a shows the FT-IR spectra of PtIn/SmTiO2 at elevated temperatures from 100 to 800C under He flow. The peaks appearing at 3670cm1 and 1620cm1 are assigned to the OH stretching vibrations of isolated surface hydroxyl groups21 and the scissors bending mode of molecularly adsorbed water, respectively.22 The OH stretching vibration of hydrogen-bonded water was also observed as a broad band around 3300cm1. This broad feature was little observed for undoped PtIn/TiO2 and PtIn/Sm/TiO2 (FigureS12), indicating that Sm-doping made the surface more polar due to an increase in the surface hydroxyl group. Changes in peak area (absorbance) upon heating under He flow were plotted against temperature (Figure2b), which correspond to the qualitative TPD profiles of surface hydroxyl groups and adsorbed water. At 300C, water desorption completed, while dehydration condensation of surface hydroxyl groups did not start. Therefore, the number of surface hydroxyl groups can be separately quantified when the sample was preheated at 300C, followed by MS-TPD.23 Figure2c shows the MS-TPD spectra of the prepared catalysts after dehydration. The amount of desorbed water was determined from the integrated peak area of the TPD spectra. The density of surface hydroxyl groups was estimated as the peak area in the MS-TPD per gram of catalyst, which is summarized in Figure2d. Surface hydroxyl density of PtIn/SmTiO2 was approximately 4.4 and 3.6times higher than those of undoped PtIn/TiO2 and PtIn/Sm/TiO2, respectively. Thus, Sm doping drastically enriched surface hydroxyl groups on TiO2. More importantly, the Sm-loaded sample showed only a little enrichment in surface hydroxyl density demonstrating that embedding Sm cations into the lattice of TiO2 at near surface region is essential for enrichment. The slight increase in surface hydroxyl groups by Sm loading for PtIn/Sm/TiO2 might be due to the filling of small amount of cation vacancies originally presenting at the TiO2 surface.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Estimation of surface hydroxyl groups by IR-MS-TPD analysis. a)FT-IR spectra of PtIn/SmTiO2 upon heating under He flow. b)Temperature dependence of the peak area of those at 3670cm1 and 1620cm1. c)The MSTPD spectra for the dehydration condensation of surface hydroxyl groups. Values in parentheses indicate the amount of catalyst used for the analysis. d)The density of surface hydroxyl groups.
The prepared catalysts were tested in PDH using a fixed-bed continuous flow reactor. Two stainless steel rods were placed as electrodes in contact with the top and bottom of the catalyst bed to impose a direct current on the catalyst (Figure3a, see FigureS13 for detailed setup). Before the reaction, the catalyst was pretreated under flowing H2 at 500C to reduce the metal particles and TiO2 supports. Notably, partial reduction of TiO2 is necessary for moderate bulk conductivity to facilitate surface protonics. Figure3b shows the propylene yield dependence on electric power supplied to the system. Propylene yield was very low (<1%) when no electricity was applied, which corresponds to the thermodynamic equilibrium limitation at 300C (FigureS14). Depending on electric power, the propylene yield monotonously increased, which indicates that PDH occurs with the aid of electricity (see FigureS15 for changes in electric power and voltage depending on current). However, electricity dependence varies widely among catalysts. For PtIn-loaded catalysts, the catalytic performance order is as follows: PtIn/SmTiO2>PtIn/Sm/TiO2>PtIn/TiO2, which is consistent with that of surface hydroxyl density (Figure2d).
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a)Reactor setup. b)Propylene yield dependence on electric power supplied to the catalytic system in electroassisted PDH. Furnace temperature was fixed at 300C. The dashed line represents the thermodynamic equilibrium propylene yield at 300 and 360C. c)Conversion-selectivity curves for electroassisted PDH. d)Catalyst bed temperature and carbon balance during electroassisted PDH. e)Changes in the catalytic activity and surface hydroxyl density of PtIn/SmTiO2 with the content of Sm dopant in TiO2 varying from 0 to 2mol%. f)Eyring plot obtained from electroassisted PDH over PtIn/SmTiO2.
Thus, Sm doping on the TiO2 surface drastically improved electroassisted PDH catalytic performance. PtIn/SmTiO2 gave sufficiently high propylene selectivity and carbon balance (>97% and >95%, respectively, Figure3c,d), which can be attributed to the alloying effect by In.15 Although the catalyst bed temperature slightly increased up to 360C due to Joule heating (Figure3d), the obtained propylene yields were far beyond thermal catalysis limitation (equilibrium yield at 360C: 2.0%), suggesting the assistance of external free energy from electricity for the uphill reaction (ΔG360C=+41kJmol1).24 Propylene yield further increased to 19.3% when electric power was elevated to 5.35W (TableS3); this was the highest yield obtained in this study.
Reaching a yield level of approximately 20% is also attractive for practical application because it is close to the commercial level (typically >25% yield).1 However, propylene yield and selectivity slightly decreased for PtIn/Sm/TiO2 when electric power exceeded 2.5W, which implies that Sm cations loaded on TiO2 have negative effects not only on propane conversion but also on selective propylene formation. Therefore, Sm cations must be doped to the surface Ti sites but not be placed on the TiO2 surface. We also performed a control experiment using Ce4+, a similar lanthanoid but tetravalent cation, as a dopant to TiO2 instead of Sm3+. The resulting PtIn/CeTiO2 (Ce: 1.0mol%) catalyst showed surface proton density and the catalytic activity trend similar to those of the undoped PtIn/TiO2 (FigureS16). This supports that the enrichment in surface proton by Sm3+ doping was surely due to charge compensation.
Then, to prove that surface hydroxyl density governs electroassisted PDH catalytic activity, a series of PtIn/SmTiO2 catalysts with different Sm contents (0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, and 2mol%) were prepared and their performances compared. The XRD patterns of the PtIn/SmTiO2 catalysts showed that no diffraction other than anatase TiO2 phase was observed, indicating that no Sm segregation occurred even for 2mol% Sm doping (FigureS17). Figure3e shows Sm content dependence of the density of surface hydroxyl groups (measured by MSTPD, FigureS18). The surface hydroxyl density monotonously increased with Sm doping up to 1mol%, demonstrating proton enrichment by charge compensation. However, the surface hydroxyl density began to decrease with an increase in Sm content. This is likely because doping a large amount of Sm induced TiO2 structure deformation at the surface. Next, these catalysts were tested in electroassisted PDH, wherein the activity trend is plotted with the surface hydroxyl density as shown in Figure3e. As a universal scale for catalytic activity in the electroassisted system, we applied propylene formation rates per electric power to the system. The activity trend agreed with the surface hydroxyl density with 1mol% at the top, demonstrating that the number of surface hydroxyl groups determines the overall reaction rate of electroassisted PDH. We also tested the stability of PtIn/SmTiO2 in electroassisted PDH at 300C, where the specific activity changed little up to 2hours (FigureS19). Although slight deactivation was observed, this was probably due to the accumulation of carbonaceous species on the catalyst (FigureS20).
Finally, a mechanistic study was conducted to understand the electroassisted PDH catalytic system. Figure3f shows the Eyring plots obtained from electroassisted PDH over PtIn/SmTiO2. The ΔH and ΔS values were consistent with those of PtIn/TiO2 (ΔH=21kJmol1, ΔS=219kJmol1) but much lower than the corresponding values for thermal catalysis (ΔH=84kJmol1, ΔS=130kJmol1) we recently reported.15 This suggests that Sm doping itself did not influence the energetics of electroassisted PDH and is consistent with an increase in the number of protons enhancing the overall reaction rate. The much lower ΔS indicates that the rate determining step (RDS) is the proton collision to propane (associative path), unlike CH activation of propane (dissociative path) in thermal catalysis. A kinetic study was then performed to further understand the role of Sm. The reaction mechanism of electroassisted PDH through surface protonics can be described as follows:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
where, , , and indicate proton acceptor on the surface (excess), proton acceptor at the metal-support interface, and metallic adsorption site, respectively (1: proton hopping, 2: propane physisorption, 3: proton collision to propane, 4: propylene formation, 5: propylene desorption). The overall reaction rate can be derived by solving the rate equation of step 3 as the RDS under a quasi-stationary approximation and the site conservation condition as follows (see the Supporting Information page 15 for details):
(6)
where, kn, Kn, PX, E, and C0 are the rate equation of step n, equilibrium constant of step n, partial pressure of X, electric power, and surface proton density, respectively. Equation(6) indicates that the reaction order of P , C0, and E range between 01, 01, and 12, respectively. Their experimental reaction orders at 300C were 0.22, 0.42, and 1.37 (FigureS21), respectively, which are consistent with the predicted order ranges, thereby demonstrating the validity of this kinetic model. Interestingly, the reaction order of P was lower than that reported for PtIn/TiO2 (0.75), whereas E was very close (1.44).15 This implies that the contribution of the K2P term in the denominator of Equation(6) became larger; namely, propane adsorption (step 2) was favored upon Sm doping. It has been reported that a coordinatively unsaturated metal cation site with a neighboring oxygen vacancy acts as an adsorption site for light alkanes.1 Therefore, there is a possibility that Sm-doping generates some oxygen vacancies other than surface protons, the former of which act as an effective adsorption site of propane at the metalsupport interface and supply it to the neighboring Pt sites. Thus, it is likely that Sm doping not only enriches surface proton density but also promotes propane adsorption, both of which accelerate the rate of proton collision on propane (i.e., RDS in electroassisted PDH).
We also evaluated the energy efficiency of this catalytic system based on enthalpy gain from the endothermic reaction (C3H8C3H6+H2: ΔH300C=+128.0kJmol1). For example, for the propylene yield of 13.7% by PtIn/SmTiO2 (at 3.36W, Figure3b), the enthalpy gain was estimated to be 0.12Js1 (W), which corresponds to 3.6% energy efficiency for the supplied electric power. In contrast, for undoped PtIn/TiO2, the corresponding energy efficiency was 1.7% (0.054Js1 for 6.2% yield at 3.14W, Figure3b). Thus, an approximately 2.1-fold enhancement in energy efficiency was achieved by the Sm doping strategy. Since the energy loss may be largely due to the bulk conduction of TiO2 and the resulting Joule heating of the catalyst, it is reasonable to increase the fraction of surface proton conduction in the overall current by enrichment of surface hydroxyl groups for better efficiency.
Conclusion
In this study, we designed a novel catalyst for electroassisted low-temperature PDH based on surface protonics chemistry, the concept of which entirely differs from our previous catalyst design based on alloy chemistry. Sm cations were doped into the surface Ti sites of TiO2 using anatase TiO2 as a core and TiSm sol as a shell, which increased the density of surface protons (hydroxyl groups) by charge compensation. Nanoparticulate PtIn with intermetallic Pt3In phase was supported on the Sm-doped TiO2 (PtIn/SmTiO2), which acted as a highly efficient catalyst for electroassisted PDH at 300C. The catalytic activity in electroassisted PDH can be controlled by changing the surface hydroxyl density depending on the doping amount of Sm, where 1mol% is the optimum doping amount. Thus, we discovered an unprecedented unique phenomenon that surface proton density governs PDH activity. A propylene yield of 19.3% was obtained when an electric power of 5.35W was applied, which is far beyond the thermodynamic equilibrium limitation at 300C (only 0.5%). Although Sm doping of TiO2 itself does not influence the reaction mechanism of electroassisted PDH based on surface protonics, it can drastically increase the overall reaction rate of propylene formation by promoting proton collisions on propane. This promotion is achieved not only by surface proton enrichment but also by the enhancement of propane adsorption by Sm. Thus, the results obtained in this study provide a highly efficient catalytic system for low-temperature alkane conversions and a general catalyst design concept for enhancing electroassisted catalysis based on surface protonics.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 