I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Development of a Strategy To Reuse Spent Cr Adsorbents as Efficient Catalysts: From the Perspective of Practical Application
Abstract
Recycling waste Cr adsorbents as efficient catalysts reflects a new avenue of green chemistry and has important implications for environmental protection. In particular, the investigation of the effect of additional impurity ions is considered to be applicable for real Cr adsorbents. In the present work, reused Cr adsorbent syntheses from streams containing competing ions were developed for CH3SH abatment and propane dehydrogenation. Good dispersion of Cr species was obtained through this special procedure of preparation, and its difference from the traditional impregnation method was also examined. Furthermore, these reused Cr adsorbents with exposure to additional impurity ions provided different physicochemical properties, and different catalytic activities were shown accordingly. The results indicated that the impurity cations had little effect on the catalytic activity of the reused Cr adsorbents, while the impurity anions caused the destruction of the siliceous framework of the MCM-41 support and led to the formation of some inactive Cr(VI) species, thus exhibiting decreased reactivity. Consequently, avoiding the addition of some anions was considered to be the premise for reusing the waste Cr adsorbents.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
KEYWORDS:waste Cr adsorbents reused as catalyst additional impurity ions propane dehydrogenation
Synopsis
Recycling waste Cr adsorbents as efficient catalysts reflects a new avenue of green chemistry and has important implications for environmental protection.
Introduction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
The presence of hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) in aquatic environments, generally originated from different industrial activities, poses serious threats to environment safety and human health. (1,2) Treatment of Cr(VI) pollution is therefore of great importance and has gained increasing attention recently. As an efficient and economical technique, adsorption is one of the most promising treatment processes for Cr removal from wastewater. (3) Various adsorbents, including organicinorganic hybrid silicon material, have been devoted to the removal of Cr(VI). (4,5) Nevertheless, disposal aspects of the used adsorbents containing adsorbed Cr metals require further attention, because the inappropriate disposal of these spent adsorbents may cause new pollution problems. Although acid and base treatments are claimed to desorb these adsorbents effectively, (6,7) the requirement for treating the spent acid and base solutions containing high concentrations of Cr(VI) is still a major disadvantage. Landfill disposal strategy is considered as the preferred option, (8) but the reserve of Cr-loaded solid waste in the environment also contributes to toxic effects on human health. (9) Therefore, finding an alternative and environmental technology to tackle the problem of the spent Cr adsorbents is necessary.
One attractive option for dealing with these undesired Cr adsorbents is to recycle them as highly efficient catalysts. (10) In fact, the outstanding characteristic of the present Cr adsorbent, regarded as organicinorganic hybrid silicon material, is its calcined product, which can eventually become MCM-41, and is known to be a catalyst support for many heterogeneous catalysts. As a matter of fact, waste Cr adsorbents were recycled by calcination and reused as Cr/MCM-41 catalyst to eliminate methyl mercaptan (CH3SH), a typical compound of sulfur-containing VOCs, (11,12) as shown in our recent study, (10) which indicates a new avenue of green chemistry and has important implications for environmental protection. However, it was proposed to use the chemical reagent K2Cr2O7 to prepare Cr(VI)-containing solutions, and the influence of any additional impurity ions was not considered, so the results might not be applicable for real spent Cr adsorbents, because many other chemical species in a given wastewater would be coadsorbed or/and compete for adsorption with Cr on the adsorbent during wastewater treatment. Thus, it would be very important to study the effect of these other additional impurity ions on the physicochemical properties and catalytic reactivity of the reused Cr adsorbent. In fact, investigation of the effects of other chemical species such as additional impurity anions and cations in the wastewaters on the catalytic performance of the reused Cr adsorbents has already been carried out in our previous work, (10) and it was shown that these impurity ions caused a difference in the physicochemical properties of the reused Cr adsorbent, thus leading to the difference in catalytic reactivity for CH3SH abatment. However, detailed analysis and explanations of these results are not given. Furthermore, the application of the reused Cr adsorbent to other reactive systems is not discussed.
On the basis of these considerations, the reused Cr adsorbent of the present work was also applied to the reactive system of propane dehydrogenation (PDH). It is known that growing demand for propene as well as the vast amounts of shale gas worldwide has spurred an increased interest in the reaction of PDH, (13,14) because propene is an important feedstock in the production of many chemicals, such as acrylonitrile, polypropylene, and propylene oxide. (15) Furthermore, an explanation for the different effects on the physicochemical properties as well as the catalytic activities of the reused Cr adsorbent synthesis from streams containing additional impurity ions is given.
Materials and Methods
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
Synthesis of adsorbents and experiments on Cr(VI) column adsorption have been provided in the literature as reported by our team. (10) In the typical column adsorption process, the desired amounts of adsorbents were packed into a glass column fixed-bed (with a length of 200 mm and internal diameter of 11 mm) to ensure a bed height of 70 mm. Then solutions (pH = 2.0) containing 20 mg/L of Cr(VI) were led to the fixed-bed through a peristaltic pump, with a flow rate of 2.2 mL/min. Meanwhile, some competing cations, including Pb2+ (Pb(NO3)2), Zn2+ (Zn(NO3)2), Cu2+ (Cu(NO3)2), Ni2+ (Ni(NO3)2), Ca2+ (Ca(NO3)2), and Mg2+ (Mg(NO3)2), as well as some anions, including F (NaF), Cl (NaCl), SO42 (Na2SO4), and SiO32 (Na2SiO4), at a concentration of 20 mg/L, were added to the Cr(VI) solution. Notably, the entire column adsorption process was conducted at room temperature for 96 h. Subsequently, the spent Cr adsorbents were recycled by calcination treatment in air at 550 C for 6 h.
The structure and physicochemical properties of the obtained samples were characterized by XPS, XRD, UVvis, FT-IR, H2-TPR, N2 adsorptiondesorption, 29Si MAS NMR, and SEM/mapping. Details on characterization methods are presented in Supporting Information (SI).
Catalytic evaluation for CH3SH abatement was reported in detail in our previous studies. (1012) Meanwhile, the PDH reaction was carried out in the same reactor packed with 0.4 g of catalyst. The feed and reaction products of PDH were analyzed by an online gas chromatograph equipped with TCD and FID detectors. More details are described in SI.
Results and Discussion
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
From Figure S1 in SI, it is seen that these additional impurity ions show little effect on the Cr(VI) column adsorption process, which indicates that our adsorbent (organicinorganic hybrid mesoporous silica materials) exhibits excellent selectivity for Cr(VI) adsorption. Meanwhile, the SEM/mapping images of the reused Cr adsorbent are shown in Figure 1. To our surprise, the sample of reused Cr adsorbent displays a good dispersion of Cr species, while poor Cr dispersion over Cr/MCM-41 synthesized by the traditional impregnation method is observed, as presented in Figure S2 in SI. The difference between the reused Cr adsorbent and the Cr/MCM-41 sample synthesized by the impregnation method is shown in Figure S3 in SI. From Figure S3, different anchoring sites for the stabilization of Cr species are exhibited, on which anionic chrome oxo species (Cr2O72) are anchored to the support by the positively charged ammonium groups (from template agent CTAB) through electrostatic interaction, (10) while the anchoring sites of Cr/MCM-41 from the impregnation method are surface hydroxyl groups. From this point of view, the normal impregnation onto MCM-41 forms poorly agglomerated catalysts, and this seems to be expected based on the anionic nature of the chromium oxide species (CrO42) and the negative charge on the surface hydroxyls. Subsequently, cationic Cr complexes (e.g., Cr(NO3)3) are used to prepare Cr/MCM-41, but the introduced Cr species are not highly dispersed on the support as expected (as shown in Figure S5 in SI), which further confirms the advantage of the present column adsorption method. In general, good dispersion of the active sites on the catalyst is expected to convey good catalytic performance in heterogeneous catalysis. (16) Thus, the above advantages over the reused Cr adsorbent highlight its further application.
Figure 1
Figure 1. SEM/mapping images of the reused Cr adsorbent.
Figure 2 illustrates catalytic activity for CH3SH abatement and PDH over the reused Cr adsorbents. As to CH3SH abatement (Figure 2A), it is found that the additional impurity cations show little effect on the catalytic activity of the reused Cr adsorbents, but the samples synthesized from the impurity anions present decreased reactivity. A similar result is also seen toward PDH reaction (Figure 2B and 2C), where the sample with exposure to additional impurity anions exhibits decreased catalytic performance with regard to propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hence, further characterization studies are carried out to explain the above results.
Figure 2
Figure 2. (A) The effect of additional impurity ions on CH3SH abatement. The effect of additional impurity ions on (B) C3H8 conversion and (C) C3H6 selectivity during the propane dehydrogenation process.
An investigation of Cr 2p XP spectra in Figure 3 and Figure S6B indicates the existence of both Cr(VI) and Cr(III) states in the reused Cr adsorbent samples. Although the introduced Cr species from the adsorption process is Cr(VI), the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) under calcination treatment has been clarified previously. (10) Surprisingly, peak fitting of the Cr 2p binding energy (BE) region for the tested samples (Figure 3) reveals that a higher relative percent of Cr(VI), about 52%, is present on the reused Cr adsorbent sample with exposure to additional impurity anions, while lower relative percents of Cr(VI), at about 40% and 30%, are respectively calculated from the not-exposed and cation-exposed samples. Si 2p XP spectra of the adsorbent samples are shown in Figure S6A in SI. Clearly, the shift of the BE to the lower BE location over the anion-exposed sample illustrates that the local Si environment of this sample is changed. Meanwhile, the XRD patterns of the reused Cr adsorbents are illustrated in Figure 4A. From Figure 4A, diffraction lines of Cr2O3 are seen in the XRD patterns of the not-exposed and cation-exposed samples, (17) but the addition of impurity anions causes the disappearance of the crystal Cr2O3 phase. It is accepted that generated HF under acidic conditions may cause destructive effects on the crystal structure of Cr2O3. Moreover, the UVvis spectra of the tested adsorbents are compared in Figure 4B. It is observed that the intense peak centered at about 360 nm, which expresses OCr(VI) charge transfer transitions of Cr(VI) species, (18) is more pronounced on the reused Cr adsorbent sample synthesis from streams containing competing anions, while the other two bands at about 460 and 600 nm, which are characteristic for octahedral Cr(III) in CrOx clusters and the presence of crystalline Cr2O3, (18,19) are found for the samples not-exposed and cation-exposed. Thus, the UVvis analysis is in line with the XPS data, suggesting the presence of Cr(VI) species on the reused Cr adsorbent sample synthesis from streams containing competing anions. Furthermore, Figure 4C shows the FT-IR result of the tested samples. It is seen that vibration frequency peaks at 560 and 640 cm1, attributed to the contribution from the Cr2O3 phase, (20) are observed in these not-exposed and cation-exposed samples, while they are absent in the sample with exposure to competing anions. Furthermore, a weak IR band at about 900 cm1, attributed to the vibration of CrO or CrO from Cr(VI) species, (21) is seen in the anion-exposed sample. As a result, the FT-IR result is in accordance with the XRD, UVvis, and XPS analysis. Notably, an FT-IR band at 960 cm1 is correlated with the vibration of the SiO bond, (22) but the shift of this band to 952 cm1 over the anion-exposed sample, as seen in Figure 4C, again indicates the change of local Si environment. (21) In addition, the H2-TPR profiles in Figure 5 show that intense reduction peaks appear on the anion-exposed sample, which accounts for the reduction of Cr(VI) species; (17,18) hence, it again suggests the presence of more Cr(VI) species. Notably, two peaks from the H2-TPR profiles can be attributed to the reduction of di/polychromates and monochromates Cr(VI) species, respectively. (10,17,18) Obviously, the sample synthesis from streams containing additional impurity anions results in higher relative content of di/polychromate Cr(VI) species.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Cr 2p XP spectra of the reused Cr adsorbents.
Figure 4
Figure 4. (A) XRD patterns, (B) UVvis spectra, and (C) FT-IR spectra of the reused Cr adsorbents.
Figure 5
Figure 5. H2-TPR profiles of the reused Cr adsorbents.
In our previous publications, (23) it was demonstrated that active Cr(VI) species are beneficial for CH3SH conversion. Meanwhile, some reported literature also indicates that the presence of high-valence state Cr species (e.g., Cr(VI)) can be generally regarded as reactive sites during dehydrogenation. (24,25) In fact, catalytic tests toward CH3SH abatement and PDH reaction are carried out by using mechanical mixtures of CrO3 (Cr(VI)) and Cr2O3 (Cr(III)) with solid MCM-41 samples, because pure MCM-41 solid exhibits almost no activity for these reactions. As to both CH3SH abatement and PDH reaction, it is observed from Figure S7 in SI that significant activity is found by using a mechanical mixture of CrO3 and MCM-41, while a mechanical mixture of Cr2O3 and MCM-41 shows low catalytic activity. From this point of view, Cr(VI) species are thought to be active centers and associated with an improvement in reactivity. Nevertheless, the reused Cr adsorbent with more Cr(VI) species in the synthesis from streams containing competing anions does not show the expected high activity. In other words, the existing Cr(VI) species in this sample are not active. Consequently, an in-depth explanation should be given.
The N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms of the tested adsorbent samples are shown in Figure 6A. The not-exposed and cation-exposed samples display type IV isotherms with an inflection at a P/P0 range between 0.2 and 0.4, which is characteristic for mesoporous MCM-41 structure. (26,27) From Figure 6A, it is seen that the cation-exposed sample shows a less sharp inflection, which illustrates a slight decrease in textural characteristic, (27) because the sharpness of the inflection generally relates to the uniformity of the mesopores. (26) However, the anion-exposed sample exhibits an obviously different isotherm, where its inflection position has shifted to the higher P/P0 location, suggesting an increase in the diameter of the mesopores. (26) Meanwhile, the appearance of a hysteresis loop also indicates the formation of mesopores and even some stacking pores in this sample, possibly originated from the dissolution of the siliceous framework in the MCM-41 support. Furthermore, pore size distributions from the physisorption data are also displayed in Figure 6A, and the results clearly confirm the generation of more mesopores in the anion-exposed sample. In fact, the XPS and FT-IR results have revealed a change in the local Si environment of this sample, and the added F under acidic conditions (pH = 2) may generate HF, thus leading to the destruction and dissolution of the siliceous framework. To further illustrate this issue, SEM maps and ICP measurements of the post-treatment materials were carried out. It is seen from Figure S8 in SI that the cation- and anion-exposed materials display different support morphology expressions, and the Si content decreases from 38.4% (sample not exposed to impurity ions) to 20.9% (anion-exposed material). Furthermore, 29Si MAS NMR spectra of the samples were measured, and the results are shown in Figure 6B. Three distinct peaks, representing for Q2, Q3, and Q4, (28) are observed in the not-exposed sample. In general, these peaks, Q2, Q3, and Q4, can be respectively assigned to (-O-)2Si(OH)2, (-O-)3Si(OH), and (-O-)4Si, where two, one, and no OH groups are attached to the silicon atom. (29) However, a decrease in the intensity and a change in the distribution of Q2, Q3, and Q4 in the sample with the exposure to anions clearly support the conclusion that the local Si environment of the sample has been changed. Furthermore, from Figure 6C and 6D, the Q2 peak is not detected in the spectrum of the anion-exposed sample, and the value of Q4/(Q3+Q2) in this sample (2.50) is higher than that in the not-exposed sample (1.53). Thus, less OH groups are presented in the anion-exposed sample. In addition, the high-frequency region from 3200 to 3700 cm1 can be assigned to the stretching vibration of the SiOH bond. (30) As a result, from Figure 6E, the decrease in intensity of this band in the case of the anion-exposed sample further suggests the presence of less OH groups.
Figure 6
Figure 6. (A) N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms. (BD) 29Si MAS NMR spectra and (E) FT-IR spectra of the reused Cr adsorbents.
From the above results, the generation of the inactive Cr(VI) species in the anion-exposed sample can be described as follows (Figure 7): the exposure to anions (e.g., F) leads to the destruction of the siliceous framework of the MCM-41 support. At this time, SBET of this sample has decreased to 350 m2/g (about 1000 m2/g of SBET is obtained on the not-exposed and anion-exposed samples), and less OH groups are present. Consequently, more di/polychromate Cr(VI) species are formed, as evident from H2-TPR analysis (in fact, di/polychromate Cr(VI) species are generally proved to be inactive during many catalytic reactions (17)). These di/polychromate Cr(VI) species are difficult to be reduced by the ammonium groups (the reduction processes are described in our previous work (10)). As a result, this effect causes the formation of some inactive Cr(VI) species. Furthermore, the collapse of the structure of the silica support could encapsulate a fraction of the Cr, which can also explain the lack of Cr2O3 and would provide a simpler explanation for the presence of higher amounts of unreducible Cr6+. To our surprise, the reused Cr adsorbent obtained from the Cr solution with no fluorine addition shows improved catalytic activity (results are not shown), which suggests that avoiding the presence of some anions (e.g., F) is the premise for reusing the waste Cr adsorbents.
Figure 7
Figure 7. Diagram for the preparation of the reused Cr adsorbents.
Conclusions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
To summarize, recycling spent Cr adsorbents as highly efficient catalysts has important environmental significance, and the investigation of the effect of additional impurity ions on the physicochemical properties and catalytic reactivity of real spent Cr adsorbents is needed. It was shown that the reused Cr adsorbent sample displayed a good dispersion of Cr species. Moreover, the impurity cations exhibited little effect on the catalytic activity of the reused Cr adsorbents, while the exposure to anions caused the destruction and dissolution of the siliceous framework of the MCM-41 support, thus causing the formation of some inactive Cr(VI) species. As a result, the sample synthesis from streams containing competing ions showed decreased reactivity for CH3SH abatment and PDH reaction.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


15. Does the article compare the selectivity profiles of metallic versus oxidized supported metal catalysts? What specific examples and explanations of selectivity modulation are provided?
16. Does the article evaluate any Pt alloy catalysts like Pt-Sn, Pt-Ga, Pt-Zn for propane dehydrogenation? What specific data, insights into performance modulation are provided?
17. Does the article investigate electronic and geometric effects of the secondary metal in bimetallic and alloy catalysts? What specific examples and structure-function insights are revealed?
18. Does the article explore the use of subsurface promoters like Re or Mn in bimetallic and alloy catalysts to tune selectivity? What specific examples and data are provided?
19. Does the article describe any synergistic effects between metals in bimetallic or alloy catalysts, attributed to ensemble and/or ligand effects? What specific examples and explanations are provided?
20. Does the article evaluate any zeolite supports like MFI, FER, or BEA structures for propane dehydrogenation catalysts? What specific examples, data, and insights are provided?
21. Does the article investigate the effects of tuning zeolite Si/Al ratio or incorporating mesoporosity on propane dehydrogenation catalyst performance? What specific examples and structure-function relationships are revealed?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <answer></answer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</Chinese version answer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<English version answer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</English version answer>

<Chinese version answer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</Chinese version answer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 